

                                 Chapter IX


         It was shortly before midnight when the Gestapo came in the
     front door of Fritz Leitner's magnificant home on the outskirts of
     Berlin and Karl von der Greif went out the window of the ground
     floor bathroom.
         He kept low and moved quickly along the wall of the house
     toward the back, stopping at the corner. When he neither heard nor
     saw anything, he scuttled across the open space and into the over-
     grown shrubbery along the wall that surrounded the property.  He
     huddled against the rough brick with his breath coming in harsh
     rasps and his heart pounding in his ears.
         The Leitner's aged head gardener had died the previous summer,
     leaving only one man to tend to things, the gardener's grandson,
     young Braun, as he was called, who had been invalided out of the
     army with a mangled leg.  But even if tending to the garden were
     all young Braun had to do, it still would have been too much.  
     Something had to go and it was the shrubbery which was totally out
     of hand.  At the moment Karl was profoundly grateful.
         "Damned bushes!" an angry voice said in disgust as two men came
     around the corner of the house. "You could hide a battalion out
     here!" The beam of a flashlight probed the brush that was Karl's
     only shield.  He shrank back against the garden wall and buried the
     whiteness of his face in the hunch of his shoulder.  The beam
     missed him.  Just.
         "Stupid to look anyway," the same voice grumped. "No one could
     have gotten out of that house.  Not the way this operation was set
     up."
         "So why was no one in there?" A second voice complained.  "Only
     Herr Leitner with his feet up, pipe and slippers, devoted wife in
     attendance.  God in heaven, such a sweet domestic scene. Enough to
     make you sick.  There was supposed to be a meeting," he said
     resentfully. "Six men, they said."
         Karl heard the scrape of a match striking and then there was
     the smell of cigarette smoke.  He let out a long careful breath.  
     The raid wasn't a fluke.  The Gestaop knew about the meeting, and
     that six men would be there.
         "It's insane," the first man said.  "Quick, they said.  You're
     needed at once, they said. We have information.  There's a meeting
     tonight and you can round them up along with all the evidence we'll
     ever need. So I left my own domestic scene with that new girl from
     the Bistro. And all for nothing."
         "The blonde?"
         "The blonde."
         "Lucky sod!"  The second voice was heavy with envy.
         "Not so damned lucky!  I had to leave her sitting there and she
     wasn't happy about it."
         There was an unpleasant little laugh.  "You're Gestapo.  What's
     she going to do?  Jilt you?"
         "For another Gestapo man, maybe."
         Karl heard a sympathetic grunt, then a sigh.  "We'd better
     get going.  Finish this idiocy."
         The two men moved away taking the arc of the flashlight's beam
     with them.
         "If we had a dog..."
         Karl shivered.  If they'd had a dog, they'd have had him.
         "Think they'll find anything inside?"
         "They'd better. The big boys really want these men, but for
     once they seem to need evidence.  And if we don't find it for them,
     we're the ones who will get the blame."
         Their voices faded and Karl let himself sag back against wall
     in relief.  If they had found only Leitner and his wife in the
     house, he kenw the other four had to be safely stuffed into the
     priest's hole behind the paneling in the library.  That priest's
     hole was why the meetings were held at the Leitner's and always in
     that room.  He was grateful that he'd had to go to the loo when he
     had, and that there was a window with shrubbery underneath that was
     big enough for him to get out.   There was room for five in the
     priest's hole if they stood cheek by jowl and didn't move, but he
     knew he couldn't have stood that, at least not for long. Suddenly
     the brush that was teasing his face and catching at his clothes
     seemed to close in on him and it was too much.
         He made himself stop and draw in a deep breath, then lifted his
     head so he could see the quarter moon and the few stars that were
     visible through the leaves.  He concentrated on the vast distance.  
     It helped, at least a little, but that little was just enough.
         How to get out of here, he asked himself firmly.  And where was
     the key to the door in the back wall?  His mind ground on that
     problem in slow motion as he moved in that direction.  Felix Leit-
     ner had shown them the key, pulling it out of its hiding place ...  
     in a hole in the mortar to the left of the door.  The relief of
     remembering was enormous.
         He edged around the corner and moved cautiously along the back
     wall, stopping, listening, then starting again.
         He knew he had to get out.  The garden was a trap.  They would
     be back in force when they found nothing in the house.  There
     wasn't anything to find unless someone in the hole sneezed, or
     fell.  They never put anything in writing.  The only thing left to
     find was him.
         He found it ironic that the Gestapo had come tonight.  At his
     insistence, they had decided to stop meeting unless there was a
     vital need. Hans was right.  There had been too much talk and not
     enough action and he had told him that.  The talk had to stop.  It
     was dangerous.  It wasn't even necessary any more.  They all knew
     now what they had to do and what the code word was and that was
     enough.
         The small doorway came up so suddenly that he almost fell into
     it.  He waited, holding his breath, listening.  There was no sound.
     His hands sought even before his brain remembered, finding where
     the mortar was gone and feeling the key that had replaced it.
         His left hand swept the door and found the handle, then the key
     hole underneath it.  He put his forefinger on the far side
         of the hole, then let the key slide along it and in.
         Now he could hear angry voices coming toward him and his hands
     started to shake.  He turned the key, praying to the lock, the
     hinges, the door, to everything for silence. It turned easily and
     the door swung open on well-oiled hinges without a sound. He went
     through, and shut it carefully after himself.  His hands were shak-
     ing so hard that he had trouble finding the key hole again.  But
     find it he did.  He put the key in and turned it, locking the door
     just in time.  The voices were nearer, then at the door, trying it,
     finding that it was locked, and talking about that in words that
     were indecipherable through the heavy wood.
         It was then that he heard the slow steady crunch of jack boots
     on gravel, coming toward him.
         He leaned against the wall, trying to make himself part of it.  
     There were no bushes to shield him on this side. He knew that if he
     moved, especially if he ran, he'd be heard.  But if he stayed where
     he was, he'd be found.  And even if he managed to knock out the
     guard, that would tell them that someone was there who didn't want
     to be found.  That in itself was a kind of proof.  Still, he knew
     he had to try.  He slid into the deep shadow of the doorway, and
     waited, ready to spring.
         "Klaus!" a voice shouted from the other side of the wall.
         The sound of the boots ceased.  "Here!" the voice that belonged
     to them shouted back.
         "Has anyone come out through the doorway in the wall?"
         "No! No one.  I've been here the whole time."
         Voices fussed behind the wooden door while the guard waited and
     Karl stood sweating, tensing and relaxing his muscles, getting him-
     self ready for whatever had to be done.
         "There's no key!" someone shouted from the other side of the
     wall.
         "Damn fools," Klaus muttered.  Karl was startled by how close
     the man had come to him. "If there's no key, how could anyone have
     gotten through?"
         "Keep a close watch, Klaus!"
         "Right."  Klaus turned on his heel and walked back the way he'd
     come.
         Karl moved out and was just starting to sidle down the wall
     the other way when he heard someone coming from that direction.  He
     shrank back into the doorway.
         "What was all the yelling about, Klaus?"  The second man was
     almost on top of him.
         Get the rifle first, Karl told himself.  It was too late to
     worry about compromising the Leitners.  They'd be compromised any-
     way if he were found skulking in their back doorway.  And if the
     Gestapo tortured him, he had no way of knowing how much he'd be
     able to hold back.  Suddenly his fear was overwhelming.  He would
     rather be dead.
         Then he was startled by the sound of an engine.  The second man
     stopped, turned and walked out into the street where he stood,
     holding his rifle across his chest.  "Halt!" he bellowed at what
     turned out to be a delivery truck.
         It stopped almost in front of the doorway and a drunken voice
     demanded to know, "What's going on at Herr Leitner's?"
         "We're the ones asking the questions," the man growled. "And
     what do you know about Herr Leitner?"   There was a nasty laugh.
         "Only that there's never trouble at Herr Leitner's.  He's a
     very distinguished gentleman."
         The second guard went to the back of the truck and opened the
     rear door.
         "What's going on?" asked the drunken voice indignantly.  
     "There's nothing in this truck but some cases of wine and the emp-
     ties.  A party ...  Wait!"
         The reason for the driver's sudden frantic tone was clear as
     the guard reappeared.  He was carrying a case of wine.
         "You can't do that!  That's Herr Baumeister's best stock! He'll
     kill me!"
         "At least he'll do it quicker than we would. Get going." Then
     came a disgusted, "Shit!' and the driver's door of the truck
     opened.  There was a confusion of foot steps and the sounds of
     retching from the other side of the road.  One guard moved toward
     the driver, while the other hauled a second case of wine around the
     far corner of the garden wall.
         Karl moved quickly to the back of the truck.  The sound was
     more than covered by the sobbing shouts of the driver, who was
     still objecting to the confiscation of the wine between his bouts
     of retching.  Fortunately the wooden wine cases were stacked on
     either side of the truck two high with one larger crate in the
     middle close to the door.  There was just enough room to squeeze
     over the top of the crate and into the space between it and the cab
     of the truck.

         An hour later, after Pflueger, Karl's aide and son-in-law had
     helped him into his warm bathrobe, he slumped, exhausted into the
     large, very comfortable chair beside the cold fireplace in his own
     bedroom.  He was shivering.  Pflueger handed him a glass half full
     of brandy.  He took it gratefully.
         "Who was driving the truck?" Pflueger asked.
         "Young Braun."  Karl reached into the pipe stand beside his
     chair and took out his favorite pipe and a pouch of tobacco.  
     "Braun wasn't drunk at all."  He was filling the pipe, tamping the
     tobacco with his thumb.   "He was next door, romancing the cook in
     her top floor room, heard the commotion and saw someone - me - roll
     out of the bathroom window and knew the only way I could go out was
     through the back wall."
         He lifted the pipe to his mouth and lit it with a special pipe
     lighter of such venerable age that most of the zinc covering was
     worn off.  Only when the pipe was drawing did he go on. "He went
     down to Baumeister's where his uncle is the night watchman and got
     the truck.  He wasn't fooling about Herr Baumeister killing him.  
     The truck was loaded for a morning wine delivery.  I will pay for
     the cases, of course."
         "Of course," Pflueger's voice quivered, "and consider it cheap
     at twice the price."
         The next morning, Karl was back in his large third floor office
     overlooking the park, trying to concentrate through his exhaustion
     on the endless demands of the Wehrmacht.
         "May I come in?"
         He looked up and his heart jumped.  "Pfeil!  For God's sake..."
     He rose and came out from behind his desk. "Come
         in.  Come in!"  He wrung the General Horst Pfeil's hand then
     indicated a chair and shut the door, almost in one swift motion.  
     "How are you? What happened?"  Despite the impeccable uniform,
     Pfiel looked terrible.
         "Nothing happened.  Thank God."
         "Of course.  Of course."   Karl sat on another chair and turned
     it to face him.
         "We spent most of the night crammed into that godforsaken hole,
     stifled half to death and having to listen to the Gestapo thud and
     bang and tromp around.  The only thing worse than hearing them was
     not hearing them because then we had no idea where they were or
     what they were doing.
         "Felix was magnificent.  Railed at them as if he really was as
     innocent as he was claiming to be.  And nerve?  God in heaven, he
     doesn't have any nerves.  He had to have been standing right by our
     section of paneling the whole time because we could hear every
     word.  Told them to go ahead and search wherever they wanted to,
     that he had nothing to hide.  Just asked them to leave the house
     the way they found it.   Of course they didn't.  It was hours
     before he could let us out it was a terrible mess.
         "Felix was pale as a ghost and his wife was hysterical.  They'd
     been at her, wanting to know what she knew, threatening her with
     everything, including sending her and their children to a camp.  
     But she kept her head, at least until they left.  I don't know how
     much more of this I can stand."  He mopped his forehead again.
     "They were at my house, checking up on me."
         "What did your wife say?"
         "What I told her to say, bless her, that I had been in a meet-
     ing in Berlin all day - which is true - and - since there had been
     a raid, that I must have been caught there.
         "My secretary and two of my aids will swear I was in the small
     bunker with them.  They knew to do that if there was a raid." He
     gave a nervous little laugh. "I never thought I'd be grateful for
     the Allies bombing Berlin but today I am."
         "Has the Gestapo been on to you yet this morning?"
         General Pfeil shook his head.  "What about you?" The handker-
     chief was at his forehead again but came down abruptly.  "And how
     did you get away? We were terrified that they'd catch you, but when
     you weren't brought in to confront Fritz ...  God be thanked that
     you weren't."  There was more brow mopping.
         "Yes," Karl said drily.  "God be thanked." Then he gave Pfeil
     an abbreviated version of what happened.  "And no, the Gestapo
     hasn't been here.  As to whether they have been to the house ... I
     doubt it.  Otto would have called."
         "Have you any idea who the informer is?"
         "No."
         "Not... one of us?"  Pfeil couldn't quite look him in the eye.
         "Lovely, isn't it," Karl said angrily.  "Here we are, wondering
     if people we've known and trusted and worked with for years have
     betrayed us.  It could be you.  Or me.  I'm doubly suspect because
     I managed to get out."
         Pfiel cast him a baleful glance.
         "Of course, if I had given us away, I would have told them
     about the priest's hole.  To make sure." It was Karl's turn to look
     away.  "It's appalling how the Nazis get everyone suspecting every-
     one else.  They want it that way, so we'll never trust each other
     enough to plot anything, let alone the overthrow of the govern-
     ment."
         Pfeil heaved a shuddering sigh.  "If it were me, I would have
     told them about the priest's hole and then got the doctor to make
     me deathly ill.  To be caught and let go..." He shook his head.  
     "We'd all know who it was. But that didn't happened.  We were all
     there. So who was it?" His face was an agony of concentration.
         "I'd say someone overheard something."
         "It means they're going to watch us."  Pfeil's shoulders
     slumped and his head came forward.  He was looking at the floor.
         "But they won't be watching Fabian von der Scheide," Karl said
     grimly.  In two days, Major Fabian von der Scheide, winner
         of the Knight's Cross in the original battle for Kiev, was
     going to model the new Wehrmacht winter uniforms for the Fuehrer,
     and in the process blow himself and the Fuehrer to bits.
         "Hard on his father."
         "He's holding up well."
         "I can't imagine it myself.  One of the few advantages of not
     having children."  Pfeil rose.  "Everything is ready? This business
     last night isn't going to interfere?"  Then he paled.  "You haven't
     told anyone?"
         Karl just looked at him.
         "Sorry," General Pfeil mumbled.
         "Everything is ready." Karl's voice was hard. "Beck is still in
     one piece and that's the main thing."
         "And you.  And Fromm.  If only von Kluge weren't in the hospi-
     tal."
         "And if only Rommel were in it with us along with all the gen-
     erals in the OKW. And beyond them, all of the generals commanding
     all of our fighting troops." Karl lifted his shoulders in a gesture
     of resignation.  "We can't afford to think about 'if onlys'.
     They're the stuff of which madness is made.  What we have is what
     we have and we'll have to do the best we can with that.  "We must
     succeed.  If not this week, next. Spring, early summer at the lat-
     est before the western Allies can invade."
         "But that takes planning!" Pfeil said in alarm.  "And planning
     means more meetings!  I told you last night!  But how can we?
     They'll be watching."
         "As with von der Scheide, one man, one plan," Karl interrupted
     impatiently.  "Maybe two men, or three.  No more.  Just notify the
     others as to when.  There's no need to know the method, no need to
     know anything but the date.  We all know what we have to do.  We
     only need to know when to do it.   It's safer for all of us that
     way."
         Pfeil studied his fingernails, his shoes, the floor, everything
     but Karl.
         He's losing his nerve, Karl thought and suddenly there was a
     knot of fear in his stomach.





















                                 Chapter XI

         The knock on the door of Hans' suite was just loud enough to
     make Sergei very careful as he opened it.
         "Sir?" he said in surprise as he saw Captain Erich von der
     Feber's angry face staring up at him.
         "I want to talk to the colonel."  His voice was as angry as his
     face.
         "I shall see if that is possible, sir," Sergei stood aside to
     let him in.  "Please sit down."  He went on into the bedroom and
     shut the door after himself.
         Sergei was not pleased.  The colonel was soaking in the tub
     with a cold drink on the ledge beside him and an old French murder
     mystery in hand.  It was the first time he had seen Richter relax
     like that and he didn't want to interrupt him, especially for an
     angry Captain von Feber.  While von Feber was not an enemy of the
     colonel's, he was not a friend either.  The captain didn't let him-
     self be a friend to anyone.
         Sergei was still hesitating, when to his relief, he heard the
     niagara of a man standing up in his bath.
         "Sir?"  He knocked.
         A vague mumble came back at him through the door, then there
     were more watery sounds which had to mean that he was getting out
     of the tub.
         "Sir," Sergei said through the door again when the watery
     sounds stopped, "Captain von Feber is here and he would like to see
     you."
         The door opened and Richter's head appeared.  "What does he
     want?"
         "He didn't say but he's angry."  They were talking in English.
         Hans started struggling into a robe he had had made out of some
     heavy beach towels, an innovation Sergei thought oddly practical.  
     He reached out and helped.
         "Thank you."  Hans picked up his brushes.  "If he's angry ...  
     If you wouldn't mind, get him a drink and tell him I'll be out in a
     minute."
         "Of course."

         Despite Erich von Feber's reputation, Hans had not found him
     difficult.  Von Feber was bright and capable, did everything that
     was asked of him and when he thought it would be useful, he some-
     times did a great deal more. And he did it all very well.   But he
     kept to himself. That didn't make sense to Hans, not if Ulrich was
     right and he really did want to support the plot.  Of course he
     might just be a careful man who didn't give his trust easily. If so
     he was also a wise man.
         Never mind, Hans told himself.  He'd deal with whatever was
     bothering von Feber the way he had to deal with everything else.  
     Prepare for what could be prepared for, and deal with the rest as
     it came, doing that over and over until he got to the end of it. He
     wished he thought there would be an end.  It seemed to him that
     this war always had been and always would be and he was sick and
     tired of it.


         "Captain von Feber," Hans said gravely a few minutes later,
     exercising formality despite his robe and slippers.  "What
         may I do for you?"
         Von Feber turned back from the window where he had been staring
     out into the gathering gloom.  There was tension in every line.  
     "Make any complaints you have about me to me and not to an officer
     in another division, especially an SS division."
         "Until this moment I have had no complaints to make about you,"
     Hans said.  "I make any complaints I have about my officers to
     them, not to someone from another division, most especially not to
     someone from an SS division."
         "I'm sorry," von Feber said stiffly.   "I should have known.  
     Fritz Heiligmann ...  Do you know him?"  He was still angry but it
     was no longer directed at Hans.
         "No."  They were still standing.  "But apparently I need to.  
     Why don't you sit down?"
         Von Feber looked around uncertainly.   "I am sorry.  I should
     have known."  He sat but on the edge of the most comfortable chair
     in the room with his stiff leg straight out in front of him. The
     drink Sergei had given him was on the table next to him, untouched.  
     "Fritz Heiligmann is the son of the Pottsdam Gauleiter.  We were in
     school together as children.  He was a nasty little bastard." He
     picked up the glass but didn't drink from it.  "Still is a bastard.  
     Just a bigger one.  I ran into him in town at the Cafe Ardiet.  He
     asked how I liked serving under you.  I said I liked it fine, thank
     you.  He said that was odd since he had heard you'd been complain-
     ing about me to anyone who would listen."  He met Hans' eyes
     steadily. "Saying that I was very difficult to deal with."
         "I have not found you difficult to deal with."
         "Thank you."  He cleared his throat.  "You may be the first of
     my commanding officers to say so." He looked away.  "You
         make it easy for me not to be difficult."
         "I'm glad, but what I want to know is why an officer from an SS
     division would try to stir up trouble in my regiment."
         "I don't know. I was too busy believing him."  Von Feber's face
     reddened slightly but his eyes never left Hans'.  "Obviously he
     wants me to be angry with you, so I'll tell him what he wants to
     know.  And he does want to know something.  He said I needed to be
     careful. That you were such a close knit group that I would never
     really be part of anything over here.  But if I didn't keep my eyes
     open, I could get myself into serious trouble."
         "What kind of trouble?"
         "I asked him that but he just shook his head in the infuriat-
     ingly superior way he has, as if he knows everything and I know
     nothing.  Then he said that if I wanted to avoid real problems, I
     should keep report anything suspicious to him.  He had connections.  
     He could help me." He laughed.  It was a dry, humorless sound.  
     "God in heaven, he was enjoying himself.  Feeling superior, espe-
     cially because I have a von in my name.  He hates that."  He took a
     sip from his drink at last.  When he looked up again, his eyes met
     Hans' and held them for a long moment.  "I want to help."
         "With what?"
         "Getting rid of all the Heiligmanns and the men who breed
     them."
         "And to do that?"   Hans wanted him to say it out loud.  Indi-
     cations to Ulrich were one thing.  Saying it out loud to his com-
     manding officer was something else.
         "We have to kill the Fuehrer,"  he said quietly as he studied
     his glass.
         Hans leaned back in his chair and let out a long breath.
         "You find that a relief?" Von Feber's voice was tight.  He
     leaned his head back as he finished off his drink.
         "Yes, I find that a relief," Hans said.  "Major Wagner told me
     you felt that way, but I needed to hear it from you."
         Von Feber nodded.  "He and I have never really talked about it,
     but we have a tacit understanding.   I have a good idea what you're
     doing here and I want to be part of it.  Now that I'm thinking
     again, Fritz Heiligmann frightens me.  It means that someone else
     has an idea about what you're doing and has enough connections to
     know that Heiligmann knows me.  Whoever it is put him on to me to
     try to drive a wedge between me and the rest of you, so that I
     might be tempted to tell him whatever I know.  It's logical," he
     said evenly. "I am the odd man out, the only one who hasn't served
     with you before."
         "Has that mattered?"
         Von Feber sank back in his chair.  "In some ways," he said
     finally. "The rest of you have known each other for a long time."
         "You knew Ulrich Wagner."
         "Yes.  But not that well."
         "You saved his life."
         "I was just in the right place at the right time."
         Hans gave him a long look which made the major lower his eyes.  
     Hans knew from Ulrich's account that Erich von Feber had gotten
     into a great deal of trouble because he had been in that right
     place at the right time because he had taken great "liberty" with
     his orders to be there.  The fact that he had been right and his
     commanding officer had been wrong had only made matters worse for
     him.  Hans decided that he was beginning to like him.
         "I did know Ulrich Wagner well enough to know that I would like
     serving with him.  I respect him.  I also like him." von Feber said
     the words with the faintest hint of a smile.  "I think it would be
     very difficult not to like him.  I also know he wouldn't volunteer
     to be part of a second rate unit.  So when he left Berlin to come
     here, I knew you had to be the sort of man who would make this a
     first class unit. I was right."
         "Why haven't you said anything before now?"
         "A matter of trust."  He looked at Hans steadily.  "I had
         to make sure."
         "What made you sure now?"
         "Fritz Heiligmann forced the issue."
         Hans nodded. "What are you planning to do?"
         "What would you suggest?"
         "Play along with him."
         There was a slow nod of agreement.  "To see what he wants to
     know.  To supply the answers we want him to have."
         Hans liked the "we."  "Exactly."
         Von Feber rose.  "Thank you."  Then he grinned, something Hans
     had never seen him do.  "It will be a pleasure."
LAYOUT 000
:ê  B 
  
*®U   <
_        ˙ \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
