                                Chapter VII

         "Hans."
         He looked up from the paper work on his desk and saw Ulrich
     Wagner standing in the doorway.  "Come in," said Hans.  "Sit down."
     "Lieutenant Mueller is upset," he said as he sat.  "Someone was
     asking him questions about all of us, you me, Georg, Schmidt,
     Schuster, von Feber, even Sergei."
         "Who was it?"
         "Mueller had no idea who he was.  Someone at a bar in Caen. He
     said the questions weren't worth reporting from a security sense.
     It was just that they were odd, the sort of thing Mueller felt
     weren't anyone's business.  He said he just shrugged and left He
     told Lieutenant Hassler about it and Hassler said that a different
     man had been asking him about the same sorts of things.  Mainly
     personal information.  Who has contact with whom.  Who comes from
     Paris or Berlin and whom they see when they're here.  Who in the
     regiment has dinner with whom. How happy is everyone with the new
     leadership and especially with all the changes that are being made.
     That sort of thing.  "Mueller was really annoyed," Ulrich con-
     cluded, "and thought I ought to know." Hans tapped his pencil on
     the desk and regarded Ulrich soberly.  "Obviously they're inter-
     ested in patterns of association." "Worrying."
         "Very," said Hans.  "I wish I didn't think it was the Gestapo."
     "Who else could it be?"
         He nodded absently.  "We have to let Berlin know, very care-
     fully, and tell them to stop warning us every time something is
     planned. Those messages are dangerous, even if they look innocuous,
     and the constant alerts and constant failures are terrible for
     morale.  We know the code word for success and that's all we need
     to know." Ulrich nodded slowly.  "The beautiful part of this
     assignment is that when we're ready for the invasion, we're ready
     for the rest of it.  And we're getting ready fast."  He gave Hans a
     hard look.  "Have you told Schmidt and Schuster yet?" "No."
         "It's a mistake. They run the same risks we do without having
     any choice about it.  They deserve to know.  And there's always the
     question of whether or not they'll go along with us.  We don't want
     to get into the middle of a situation and have one of them balk,
     especially Schuster."
         Hans had no answer for that.
         Ulrich knew better than to pursue the matter.
         Two days later Captain Nammacher walked into Hans' office and
     stood at attention in front of his desk.  "The second lot of tanks
     are repaired as ordered, sir," he said, "and the initial shipment
     of spare parts has been properly catalogued and stored, again as
     ordered.  Berlin was prompt." "Well done," Hans said. "It goes to
     show what you can do when you put your mind to it."
         "Yes, sir."  Nammacher stared at a spot on the wall somewhere
     over Hans' head.  He was sweating.
         "Keep it up."
         "Yes, sir." He gave the Nazi salute smartly, then turned on his
     heel and left.
         Almost at once, Sergei filled the doorway.  "Herr Colonel?" he
     asked softly.  "I may talk with you alone?"
         "Of course. Come in and shut the door."
         "It is bad," Sergei said when he had complied.  He looked grim.
     "What is it?"
         "May we talk in English?"
         "Of course," Hans said in that language.
         "The man who just left is in command of the field repair unit."
     "Yes."
         "And Sergeant Major Kriebel is with that unit as well."
         "Yes."
         "Someone went through your rooms this morning.  I noticed when
     I went to put away your clean shirts.  Things were not quite as
     they should have been.  Very close but not quite.  Do you under-
     stand?"
         "Of course.  You would sense that even better than I."
         Sergei nodded.  "A sergeant was coming down the stairs, someone
     I have seen but don't know.  I don't think he should have been up
     there.  But since there are other rooms on that floor, I couldn't
     challenge him.
         "It's too easy for anyone to get into your rooms."  Sergei's
     voice was full of reproach.  "You need more private accommoda-
     tions."
         "Even so, what does this have to do with Captain Nammacher and
     the sergeant major?"
         "Last night I saw the man who was on the stairs with the ser-
     geant major and it was obvious that they are friends.  And just
     now, when the captain came to see you, he brought the sergeant
     major with
         him.  Captain Schmidt was away from his desk.  I think they may
         have arranged for him to be away because when I came into the
     outer office a few minutes ago, I found the sergeant major looking
     for something in a file drawer.  He tried to tell me that he needed
     more forms for ordering spare parts.  Captain Schmidt does not have
     those forms.  They are in the room with the file clerks as the ser-
     geant major should know.
         "I also found it interesting that he felt he had to explain to
     me.  He doesn't owe me any explanations, even when I find him in an
     office that isn't his.  The office isn't mine either and he also
     outranks me.  Do you understand what I mean?"
         "Perfectly."
         Sergei persisted. "It is the sign of a guilty man."
         Hans nodded.
         "I have heard talk of this sergeant major.  He's angry with you
     for making him work so hard.  I think he sent the sergeant to
     search your room.  I also think that's why he was looking through
     the files.  He wants to find out something that will make you stop,
     and I think there is something to find, if he knew where to look
     for it." Hans looked at him in silence.
         "I saw you burn two letters and have found ashes in the waste-
     basket.  I've known for a long time that you and your uncle are
     doing something you don't want anyone to know about.  I also think
     that Major Brandt and Major Wagner are involved.   You don't like
     what the Gestapo is doing in the Soviet Union.  I know some of it.
     It's terrible. Not human.  And what they do here."  Sergei shook
     his head.  "The reprisal killings.  Men sent into forced labor.   I
     once heard you talking about it with Major Wagner and the doctor.
     I think what you are trying to do would put an end to all that.
     And the only way to do that is to get the Nazis out of power so you
     can end the war." Sergei was speaking so softly that Hans had to
     lean forward to hear him.  It took physical effort for him not to
     react.  "If the war goes on, millions of people will die and Ger-
     many will be destroyed.  Most of Europe will be destroyed."  He had
     a red spot on each cheek and was shifting from one foot to the
     other while his hands fidgeted behind his back.  "I also know that
     most people in Germany can't see this, especially the people who
     have the power to end it right now.  To do something is dangerous.
     It's even dangerous to think about doing something.  I just want
     you to know that I will help you when I can." "You are always a
     great help to me."  Hans cleared his throat.  "I appreciate your
     telling me about the sergeant major." "That isn't all.  He asked me
     questions about you and who you see and what you do.  I let him
     think I didn't understand what he was talking about.  He doesn't
     think I'm very bright." Sergei looked amused.  Hans smiled.  "He
     even offered me a woman." Sergei laughed. "I don't think I'd like
     any woman the master sergeant would give me." "Wise man." Sergei's
     face was lit by one of his rare slow smiles.  "Yes. Thank you.
     There are some beautiful women in France but I don't think the ser-
     geant major would know any of the sort that would interest me. And
     even if he found one, French women are too small and delicate.  Not
     sturdy enough." That made Hans laugh.
         "It is Kriebel and Nammacher's gang who are asking the ques-
     tions," Schmidt confirmed the next morning.  "If it were just them,
     we could take care of it, but they're giving the information to the
     Gestapo."  Schmidt had returned to the gloom that, prior to France,
     had been his constant companion.  "Why would the Gestapo want to
     know about us?" Hans just shook his head.  "And if they want infor-
     mation, why use Kriebel to get it? They should be able to get any-
     thing they need from their own files.  And why would Kriebel
     bother?  If Kriebel wanted the Gestapo to put pressure on us to
     leave him alone, all he would have to do was pay them." Schmidt
     shook his head in disgust.  There was a sound and they both turned
     toward the door as one.  It was open. "That was true with Major
     Feldmann, Captain Schmidt."  It was Ulrich Wagner.  "Sorry I'm
     late." He perched himself on the edge of Hans' desk.  "If Feldmann
     were still in charge, Kriebel would have no problem.  Unfortunately
     the new head of the Caen Gestapo station is a very different
     matter.  Major Pfister.  From what I gather, he intends to turn
     Caen into a model Gestapo unit." Hans was leaning on his elbows,
     his two hands laced into one fist, his mouth on his thumbs.  "And
     he came here from Berlin via Paris." Ulrich nodded. His face was
     pale.  Every freckle stood out with great clarity.  "What differ-
     ence does it make where he's from?"  Schmidt reddened and his voice
     was louder than it should have been.  "All we're doing is getting
     this unit in better shape than it's ever been.  Just let the Ges-
     tapo try to make something out of that." He looked angrily from one
     of them to the other.  "Is there any-thing else,  Herr Colonel?" he
     asked with a formal correctness that Hans had not heard from him
     since before Stalingrad.  "Not for the moment."  Hans picked up a
     sheaf of papers and tapped them on the edges to square the pile.
         Schmidt hesitated at the door. "I don't like it," he said
     finally.  "Something's going on.  I just wish I knew what it was."
     "If something is going on, it should come clear in due time."
     Schmidt turned abruptly and left, shutting the door after himself.
     "For God's sake, Hans," Ulrich accused into the long silence that
     followed.
         Hans shook his head.
         "He suspects," Ulrich protested. "He may even know.  But he
     doesn't know what he knows.  From what I've seen, he's a man who
     won't let it rest. He'll worry it like a dog with a bone and come
     up with some sort of answer and the answer he comes up with may be
     even more dangerous to us all than the truth."
         "What could be more dangerous than the truth?" Hans asked.  "We
     all took a personal oath of loyalty to the Fuehrer.  Every one of
     us. Oaths are to be kept."  He lifted his hand to kill the protest.
     "I know.  I know.  Though no one said it was under pain of death,
     we were forced to take it.  Even if he didn't think about it, every
     man knew that if he didn't take that oath it meant death, or even
     worse, a concentration camp.  Though he didn't tell me so, it had
     to have been that oath that kept Karl out of the plotting for so
     long."
         "And Schmidt is a man who would take an oath very seriously."
     Ulrich said. "In those days he wouldn't have felt any duress, and
     even if he did, once he took it ..."  Ulrich's words trailed off.
     But then his eyebrows rose in surprise.  "You don't want to tell
     Schmidt because you're afraid he'll take his oath seriously and
     turn you in?"
         Hans' eyes were far away.  "He wouldn't turn me in any more
     than I would turn him in, but he is a man of principle.  It would
     cost him dear." "There are no cheap ways out, not in this war. Tell
     then, Hans, oath or no," Ulrich said. "Both Schuster and Schmidt
     have a right to know."


         Guy Ardiet was walking along the broad sidewalk toward the
     front door of the Cafe Ardiet when he was stopped by an urgent
     whisper. He swiveled around and saw, with astonishment, Henri, his
     maitre d', urging him into the alley beside the restaurant with
     quick, nervous gestures.
         He didn't hesitate.  Since Henri never behaved this way, it had
     to be serious.
         "Thank God you're here," Henri said as they started down the
     alley.  "Master Sergeant Kriebel came in nearly an hour ago.  He
     wants to see you, insisted on waiting for you.  He made Armand open
     the bar.  You know how Kriebel can be.  It was the only thing
     Armand could do.  He's drinking calvados."
         "Yes." Guy didn't like what he was hearing.  Kriebel was bad
     enough when he was sober.  Drunk he was capable of anything.  Guy
     moved fast, around the back corner and into the storeroom, "What
     does he want?"
         "He wouldn't say.  Just demanded to know where you were, then
     banged his glass on the bar for more."
         "See if anyone knows where he was before he came in here."
          Henri nodded and disappeared.
         Guy stood back in the shadows in the hall.  Kriebel was sitting
     on a stool, hunched over the bar on his forearms.  Then his head
     tilted back and there was the sound of a glass thumping onto the
     bar.  "More, Garcon." It was a growl.
         Armand was in the corner by the back hall, apparently counting
     glasses.  It was a moment before he turned and when he did, Guy saw
     anxiety in his face.  He took the glass, a wine glass instead of
     the usual liqueur glass, refilled it, then retired to his corner
     with his back to sergeant.
                "Garcon!" Kriebel insisted.
         "Sir," Armand said coldly without turning around.  Guy knew he
     hated being called that and knew that Kriebel knew it as well.
         "Look at me when you talk to me!"
         Armand turned slowly.   Kriebel half stood, leaned across the
     bar and grabbed Armand by the wrist.
         "Let him go, Kriebel."  Though Guy said it quietly, the effect
     was electric.  Everything stopped. Then Kriebel pushed
         Armand away and slumped back on the stool.  "The bar is
     closed."
         "The hell it is." Kriebel said as he held up his empty glass.
     "Tell the kitchen we want coffee, Armand."  The diminutive barman
     scuttled off into the back hall.
         Obviously Guy's order for coffee had been anticipated because
     at that moment the swinging doors to the kitchen opened and Gaston
     came through with a tray.
         "I don't want coffee," Kriebel's face was a dusky red and he
     was sweating.
         "I do," said Guy.  "Join me or not.  It's your choice. But you
     won't get anything else in here, not today."
         "Bastard."
         Gaston put the tray on the bar, then looked at Guy anxiously.
         "That will be all," Guy said and the boy all but ran back to
     the kitchen.
         Guy poured a cup of coffee and pushed it in front of the ser-
     geant. Then, as he poured another for himself, "What do you want?"
         "Information."
         "What sort of information?"
         "About Colonel Richter.  You've had more than enough time to
     come up with something."
         "All I've found out is that he's a fair man," said Guy.  "He
     treats the French well, especially the farmers.  He delayed maneuv-
     ers for two days so they could get their first cutting of hay in."
         "That isn't the sort of information I want and you know it."
         "If you recall, Kriebel, we have an agreement.  You don't mix
     into the French side of our joint business and I don't mix into the
     German side.  It's worked so well that I don't think we'll abrogate
     it simply because you're in some kind of trouble.
         "Who is it who's giving you trouble?  Richter?  Or is it the
     Gestapo.  I understand there's a new man in town.  Is he the prob-
     lem? Kriebel looked away.  A muscle in his cheek was twitching.
     Guy inched back just far enough to be out of Kriebel's reach.  "If
     you value your life, little man," Kriebel said, "get me all the
     information you can about Richter and his officers."  He slid off
     the stool, and turned to go, but was so unsteady on his feet that
     he had to grab the bar to keep from falling.  He looked back at
     Guy, as if daring him to say anything.
         Just then Madeleine walked in, trailed by Charles.
         "Guy," she called.  "I need to see you when you're free."
         "In a minute."  Guy's hand was in his pocket, his eyes on the
     sergeant. He had seen the leering admiration on Kriebel's face.
         "Use her to get the information," Kriebel said.  "And if she
     needs lessons, I'll be more than happy to give them to her."
         He must have sensed Guy's fury because he backed away.  "Just
     get me what I want," he blustered.  "Remember, we're in this
     together.  If I sink, so do you."
         With that he was gone.
         "Who was that disgusting looking man?" Madeleine came up and
     leaned on the bar.
         "No one you need to worry about."
         "I hope not."
         When Madeleine's scheduling problem was settled to her satis-
     faction, Guy went back to his office.  Henri was sitting in the
     chair beside the desk, finishing off a snifter of the private stock
     brandy. A small automatic pistol complete with silencer lay on the
     table beside him.
         Guy gestured toward the pistol.  "Thank you."
         Henri nodded. "I'm relieved I didn't have to use it."
         "So am I."  He paused.  "You heard?"
         Another nod, then Henri put down the glass and leaned forward
     to get up.  He paused with one hand on the desk.  "It has to be the
     Gestapo.  Hercule saw Kriebel going into Francois' cafe a few hours
     ago. That new Gestapo man treats it as if it were his club.  Her-
     cule was curious and followed him in.  The two of them - Kriebel
     and this Major Pfister - were talking.   They kept their voices
     down but Hercule knows one of the waiters.  He told Hercule that
     the Major was angry, told Kriebel that it wasn't enough, - whatever
     it is - that he had to get more.  That's all he heard.  When
     Kriebel left, he didn't look happy and he came straight here."
         "Thank you."
         He nodded and left.
         Guy leaned back in his chair, thinking that if the Gestapo was
     interested enough in Colonel Richter to make Kriebel's life diffi-
     cult - He was sure that was what was going on - then he had better
     be interested as well. Even more interested than he already was.
     He was pleased to hear that the Gestapo chief was so delighted with
     Francois' cafe.  Francois was his second cousin.
LAYOUT 000

STANDARD2
B
<
