                                Chapter XV

          "Gaston said you wanted to see me." Madeleine was standing in
     the hallway as Guy came back from the storeroom.
          "Yes.  Come on in."  He led the way to his office and shut the
     door after them.
          "What happened last night?" She asked.  "When Gaston came in,
     he was limping.  All he'd say was that he tripped and fell."
          Guy just nodded.  Madeleine's brother, Gaston, had fallen
     going over a wall while getting away from the Milice.  It had been
     a near thing.
          "I know he works for you.  Not here."  Her hand swept away the
     restaurant.  "The work he does here is fine.  It's the other work
     he does for you.  It's too dangerous."
          "And to think, Gaston complains I don't let him do enough,"
     Guy said.
          "He's just a boy. He's too young for this war."
          "No one is too young for this war."
          Her eyes filled with tears and he cursed himself.
          "I know what happened to your son, Madeleine."
          She looked away. "How long have you known?"
          "Not long."  Until four days before, Guy hadn't even known
     that she had a son.
          "How did you find out?"
          "Sources."
          "Why did you bother your sources?"
          "Because I needed to know why you refused to get involved."
          "To make sure I hadn't been turned?"  She was looking at him
     at last and she was very angry.
          "No."
          "How can you be sure?" she asked.
          "My God, Madeleine.  It never occurred to me that you'd spy
     for the Germans.  It's just that you'd changed. I wanted to know
     why." He paused.  "It's far too small a thing to say in the face of
     what happened to you, but I am sorry."   He was more than sorry. He
     had feelers out.  It he ever found out where this Pierre had run
     to, Pierre would never run again, anywhere.
          Her only answer was a slight clearing of the throat.
          "But you need to understand that as much as you want to, as
     much as you deserve to, you can't stay out of this war.  No one
     can.  People are beginning to ask me questions about you, about why
     you're seeing a German.  Especially the family.  I just shrug and
     that makes them think that because you're working for me, you're
     also working with me.  But if that assumption starts to change
     there is little I can do."
          Her face was bleak.
          "Your colonel is coming in tonight."
          She nodded.
          "So is the Gestapo, in strength."
          "So?"
          Guy concentrated on making concentric doodles in the margin of
     the list in front of him. "The new head of the Caen Gestapo station
     is an effete and very unpleasant major named Pfister.  From their
     point of view, he's a distinct improvement over the idiot he
     replaced, which is unfortunate.  He's bringing two men with him. I
     assume they're body guards, since they'll be staying in the bar."
          "Look at me," she said.
          He looked up.
          "I know you.  Something's wrong.  What is it?"
          His eyes went back to his doodles.  "I just learned that
     you're going to have to appear at Gestapo headquarters within the
     next few days, for questioning.  I think he's coming in to get a
     look at you before he talks to you."
          He looked up and saw that her face was ashen.
          "Sit down." He came around the desk and put a chair behind
     her.
          Her legs gave way and she sat abruptly. "Why would they want
     to see me?"
          He put his hands on her shoulders.  She was trembling.  "I
     think he wants information about your colonel."
          "Why?   He's a good man and a good officer.  Everyone seems to
     like him."
          "I don't know why, but they've been interested in him almost
     since he got here."  He reached into the low credenza that ran
     along the wall and took out a bottle of calvados and a short water
     glass.  "The point is, what do you intend to tell them?"
          "Thank God, there is nothing I can tell them.  We never talk
     about the war."
          "I doubt they want to know about that. The Gestapo can find
     out about what he's done during the war from a great many people.  
     I'm sure what they're after ...  If the Gestapo wants information
     about a German officer, it has to be because they suspect him of
     being a subversive."
          "That's ridiculous."
          "Perhaps.  But you'll know if that's what they suspect by the
     questions he asks.  If that's it, he'll want personal information.  
     Who he sees, where he goes and who is there when he gets there.  
     What has he had to say about the German government and the war.  I
     know.  I know." He waved her off.  "You don't talk about the war,
     but perhaps he has said something about war in general, about his
     attitude toward the war."
          "He doesn't like it."
          "That may be enough for them."
          She looked at him in amazement.  "Why?  No sane person likes
     this war."
          "The Gestapo isn't sane.  It rules by fear.  The greater the
     fear, the more their power, so they spend a great deal of time
     thinking of how to make everyone afraid.  You are blameless in this
     war.  You have done nothing.  You shouldn't have to be afraid of
     them, but you are. That gives them power over you. I'll as you
     again, what will you tell them?"
          "His mother is American.  She lives in London.  Did you know?"
          "No.  Of course not.  How could I know?  You won't talk about
     him.  But the Gestapo may not know that.  The Army would, but oddly
     enough the Gestapo doesn't have access to their files.  So tell
     them that.  What else?"
          "That's the only sort of thing I can tell them.  And if the
     army already knows all about his family, it can't be very impor-
     tant." She shrugged.  "I shall be a great disappointment to the
     Gestapo."
          "Whatever they ask you, you need to seem to be cooperating. 
     Answer what you can with plenty of detail."
          "And what if they ask me about you?  That's what it could be
     about, you know."
          "Tell them about the black market.  They know all about that."
     He was back at his desk. "They should.  They're involved in it with
     me. They give me protection in return for certain goods and favors,
     a lot of goods and more favors than I care to think about."
          "Then they would never hurt me."
          His hands slapped the desk so hard that it made her jump.  
     "You're a fool. They protect me only as long as I'm useful to them.  
     If I cease to be useful, or if it suits their purpose, the Gestapo
     would grind me under its heel and walk on as if I had never
     existed.  I'm no protection.  You have no protection when you're in
     there, except your wits.  So think, damn you.  Be as honest as you
     can.  Tell as much truth as you can.  Anything you know about his
     family, where he's lived, that sort of thing.  And if they ask you
     about something you need to lie about, keep it simple and as close
     to the truth as possible.  Small details are important because
     they're convincing.  Bore them to distraction with true details."
     Beads of sweat popped out on his forehead.
          "You are frightened for me."
          "Yes, I'm frightened for you. Of course I'm frightened for
     you.  It frightens me for all of us."
          She stood and leaned on the desk on her fingertips.  "Then I
     shall have to be very good and very careful, for all of us."
          Guy studied her face, then smiled a slow smile.  "Welcome
     back, Madeleine.  I really am glad to see you."

          An hour later, Guy  pulled his baeutifully laundered shirt
     cuffs out of the sleeves of his shirt jacket, exposing the gold,
     onyx and diamond cufflinks of which he was inordinately proud.  He
     smoothed his hair back with a pair of silver backed brushes, then
     studied himaself in the mirror with satisfaction.
          Thus armored, he strode out into the hallway across from Made-
     meine's tiny dressing room, turned left past the door to the cel-
     lar, then right and into the bar.  He was pleased to see that a
     good crowd had already gathered.
          He paused, progress momentarily arrested by the sight of a
     Gestapo major talking to two men in trench coats, one short and
     square, the other tall and almost excessively lean. The major was a
     long, narrow man with smooth black hair, sunken cheeks and the eyes
     of a fanatic.
          Major Pfister's predecessor looked like a satyr and had been a
     self-seeking, self-indulgent cruel boor who had left them alone.  
     This man looked like a Jesuit gone awry.  Guy did not find that
     reassuring.
          Just then the major turned and fixed Guy with his eyes.  He
     stood there waiting as the other two men melted away.
          "It is a great pleasure to meet you at last, Herr Major," Guy
     said in his heavily accented German.
          "I hope it becomes my pleasure as well, Monsieur Ardiet," the
     major replied in equally heavily accented French.
          Since he seemed to prefer it, Guy reverted to his own lan-
     guage.  "Is anyone joining you?"
          "No.  I am dining alone.  All the better to concentrate on the
     performance of what I hear is a superb chanteuse."
          Guy gave a slight bow of acknowledgement.  "You will, I hope,
     let me provide you with a suitable bottle of wine to accompany your
     meal."
          "I have heard rumors of a very private cellar here."
          Guy forced a smile.  "From you, Major, nothing is held pri-
     vate."
          "Lafitte Rotheschild?"
          "It is my pleasure."  He beckoned Henri, the maitre d', who
     was hovering in the entrance to the dining room.  "The very best
     table for the Major Henri, and see that he is well served.  I shall
     be providing the wine.  Consult me after he has ordered."
          "Of course.  Major."  He inclined his head toward the Gestapo
     man.  "If you will follow me."
          Guy gave him a nod, then turned away, relieved to be able to
     welcome an elderly couple who were here to celebrate their wedding
     anniversary.  The man whispered, "Champagne" at him, but not
     quietly enough.  Guy saw his wife smile to herself.  It was a happy
     smile.  He made a mental note to give it to them at cost.
          Next, he showed Colonel Richter and Majors Brandt and Wagner
     to what had become the colonel's regular table.  He was relieved to
     see that Henri had placed Major Pfister two tables away, by the
     wall and next to the stage where he could watch Madeleine in pro-
     file without her having to look at him.  The major would also have
     to turn quite deliberately look at Colonel Richter.  Though he
     hated Germans and could not understand how Madeleine could be
     attracted to one, Guy had a grudging admiration for the colonel.  
     The only objection he had to him was that he was always so discrete
     in his conversation.
          There was a momentary lull, then Major von Feber came in from
     the bar with an SS Lieutenant Heiligmann, someone Guy found obnoxi-
     ous.  He was also concerned since the last time Major von Feber was
     in, he had created a scene at Colonel Richter's table.  Though that
     had been instructive, he didn't want a repeat, not tonight, and so
     he jerked his head to indicate that Henri should seat them in the
     far corner.
          When he turned back he found a tall, well built dark haired
     German lieutenant and a small, attractive, dark haired French woman
     with careful eyes and a royal blue dress.  They had no reserva-
     tions, so he showed them to a small table close to the kitchen
     door, where the staff would be constantly walking by.
          He pulled out her chair, seating her with the same care he
     showed every woman who came in. He lifted the intricately folded
     napkin from the center of her place setting and snapped it open.
          He wondered why she didn't lift her hands so he could put the
     napkin in her lap until he saw that she was looking at Major Pfis-
     ter.  He cleared his throat.  She looked up, the faint residue of
     fear fading into resignation.  She lifted her hands.  As he put the
     napkin into her lap, he had the sudden sense that this woman was
     Resistance.  He couldn't have said why.
          Gaston brushed past him with a muttered, "Sorry," and he
     watched as the boy went to Colonel Richter's table.  Gaston shifted
     uneasily from one foot to the other and cleared his throat to get
     the colonel's attention.  Then he leaned over and spoke quietly,
     almost into his ear.  There was a nod in reply, but it was only
     after Gaston had gone back into the kitchen that the colonel rose
     and made his way across the floor and through the exit that led to
     Madeleine's dressing room.
          Madeleine was going to tell him about the Gestapo.  Guy was
     surprised at his own surprise.  Madeleine did not go into a rela-
     tionship with a man lightly.  She went into it heart and soul.  The
     thought made him both sad and angry.  He knew there could be noth-
     ing for Madeleine in this particular relationship  but heart break
     and disgrace.
          He heard a raucous laugh and he half turned.  Obviously
     Lieutenant Heiligmannn was amused by something he saw on the other
     side of the restaurant.  His face was red and shiny and Guy rea-
     lized that he had proibably already had too much to drink.  There
     wasn't much he could do about it, except keep a watchful eye.  Ger-
     man officers, especially, had to be served what they ordered.
          On the other hand Major von Feber looked absolutely sober.  He
     was looking at Heiligmann with an expression Guy decided could be
     either amusement or disgust and probably was a mixture of both.  
     But then Heiligmann turned back to the Major and the Major's mouth
     widened into what would have been a smile if it had extended to his
     eyes.  Guy watched the by play with interest because he had long
     felt that there was something that didn't fit.  Heiligmann was a
     boor and the major - the disagreement the other night aside - was a
     true aristocrat.  The lieutenant leaned across the table, talking
     quietly, then leaned back and slapped his hand on the table in glee
     at what had to be the punch line of a joke.  There was a tremor of
     what Guy read as disgust on the major's face and he joined the
     laughter belatedly.  The major doesn't like that man, Guy told him-
     self.  He's prettending to, buit he doesn't like him at all.
          Henri came up and then there was no time.  There were problems
     to be solved, confusions to be untangled, people to speak to,
     laughter to be joined in.  He paused when Hans Richter came back
     across the diningroom, saw the set of his face and could read noth-
     ing.  As he was sitting, the colonel's eyes caught someone across
     the room.  There was a flicker of expression that Guy couldn't
     define, then nothing again.  He found that puzzling and Guy Ardiet
     always paid attention to things he found puzzling.  It was one of
     the reasons he was still alive.  He walked behind the colonel's
     table so he could look in precisely the same direction, toward the
     kitchen door.  Since there were no new employees who could be a
     surprise, Guy knew he was looking at the table where the lady in
     blue was sitting.  In addition to sufffering from traffic going to
     and from the kitchen, it was also isolated from the rest of the
     tables.  But it was the lieutenant who faced the colonel in 3/4
     profile.  All he could see of the woman was her hair.  He asked
     himself what there was about this particular lieutenant that would
     both arrest the colonel and make him not want to acknowledge the
     lieutenant's existence.
          The lieutenant wasn't looking in his direction, and neither
     was the woman.  They seemed quite content with each other.  Guy
     felt certain that if he was right and she was Resistance, she was
     getting a great deal of information for her trouble.


          Madeleine came out for her first set and the house quieted.  
     She was superb, as she always was.  Major Pfister watched her with
     an intenisty that made Guy's hand fidget toward the flick knife in
     his pocket.
          Colonel Richter's face would have seemed impassive to anyone
     who wasn't watching closely.  The only expression on Major von
     Feber's face was acute boredom.  Guy wasn't surprised, since
     Lieutenant Heiligmann seemed to be doing all the talking, to the
     aggrivation of the people at the next table whose listening plea-
     sure was obviously being interfered with.
          The woman in royal blue was sitting with her back to him but
     he could see that she kept glancing at Madeleine, then back at the
     lieutenant.  Her shoulders tensed.  When Guy moved slightly, he
     could see that she was simply picking at what was an excellent
     chicken entre.  He had difficulty with this.  If she was truely
     Resistance, she shouldn't have cared one way or the other about the
     attention the German was giving Madeleine.
          Then he noticed that the German lieutenant was looking from
     Madeleine to the Gestapo then toward what he was sure had to be the
     colonel's table. His eyes stopped only briefly before passing on.  
     Finally the lieutenant shifted in his chair and began concentrating
     on the woman in blue.  His expression softened and their heads
     moved closer across the table.  As he talked, Guy saw the tension
     go out of her back.
          Just then, Madeleine finished her set and moved off the stage
     to thunderous applause.  It was as the enthusiasm died down, that
     Guy heard the sirens.
LAYOUT 000
:ê  B 
  
*®U   <
_        ˙ \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
