                                Chapter XIX
          Hans stood in the doorway of Madeleine's sitting room twisting
     his officer's cap in his hands.
          She wrapped her heavy robe more closely around herself and
     looked back.
          "I can't stay," he said.  "I have to be at the airport.  I
     just wanted to see if you needed any help."
          "No."
          She was looking at him with a peculiar intensity that made him
     even more uncomfortable.   He looked away.  He owed her a debt that
     he was finding too heavy to bear.  What made it even worse was that
     he had no choice about having to bear it.
          She picked up a book from the small table beside the settee
     and held it out to him.
          He took it without even looking at it.
          "It's a book Peter wanted you to have.
          He nodded. "Gaston said you weren't well, that the doctor was
     coming."
          She moved around him and shut the door then came around to
     face him again because he still hadn't moved.
          "I am fine," she said softly.  "The doctor is coming to see
     Peter.  My supposed illness is an excuse for him to come."
          "Is he worse?"
          "I don't think so.  He fell as he got to the top of the attic
     stairs.  It frightened me, especially because I couldn't tell
     afterwards whether he was asleep or unconscious.  I stayed with him
     most of the night.  He seemed all right.  His breathing ...  He
     woke up a few hours ago, in pain.  I gave him one of the pills and
     some food and he went back to sleep.   So the doctor ... "  She
     stopped and backed away a step.  "You make me feel as if I have
     done something wrong and I can't imagine what that is."
          "You have done everything exactly right."
          Her eyes narrowed.  "Would you rather I hadn't?"
          There was a knock at the door.
          "What is it?" she asked angrily without taking her eyes from
     Hans' face.
          Gaston's voice came through the door.  "The doctor is here."
          "I have to go." Hans turned toward the door.
          "Will you be back?"
          "Just call me and tell me you want to see me and I'll come as
     soon as I can."
          "Madeleine," Gaston wailed.  "The doctor is here and there's a
     Gestapo man outside talking to the colonel's driver."


          Sergei kept looking at his watch.  He was sure the American
     was in that house and he wanted the colonel out of there. Besides,
     the colonel general's plane was due soon.  It wouldn't do to be
     late.
          He glanced up at the house, back at his watch, then, because
     there was the sound of a car's engine, into the rear view mirror.
          The car slowed to a stop behind the staff car, and he sat very
     still.  He knew the car, not that particular car, but what that car
     represented.  There was confirmation when a man wearing a trench
     coat and a green Tyrolean hat got out of the back.
          "Corporal Voronov?" the man asked as he approached the car.
          Sergei got out slowly and came to a semblance of attention.
     "Sir."
          "Gestapo Captain Mueller.  You helped get people out of the
     wreckage of the Cafe Ardiet last night."
          "Yes, sir."
          "One of those who came out of the cellar with your colonel
     was a lieutenant.  Who was he?"
          "I don't know."
          Mueller's face darkened.  "Where did he go?"
          "I don't know.  I went down into the cellar to help with the
     wounded.  I didn't see him after I got out."
          "Do you know that he was a big man?"  Mueller asked sarcasti-
     cally.
          "Yes."
          "With dark wavy hair."
          "I couldn't see that."
          "He was with a woman.  Do you know what happened to her?"
          "She was badly hurt.  She must have gone to the hospital."
     Sergei was tired and that only increased the strain of having to
     deal carefully with this man in German.
          "The lieutenant was also injured.  Why didn't he go to the
     hospital?"
          "I didn't know that he hadn't."
          "Did this lieutenant talk?"
          "Yes."
          "What did he say?"
          "We talked about how to get him and the woman out.  He was
     worried about her."
          "Did he cry out?"
          "Not while I was down there."
          "Did you hear anyone cry out in a foreign language?"
          Sergei pretended to think about that.  "I heard French and
     German."
          "No other language?"
          He shook his head.  "It was a confusing time."
          "Is there a problem here?"  Hans Richter's voice startled them
     both, but to Sergei it was a great relief.
          "Gestapo Captain Hermann Mueller, Colonel.  I am trying to
     find the lieutenant who was trapped in the cellar of the cafe with
     you.  I was just asking your man here about where he might have
     gone.  I would like to ask you those same questions."
          "Then apply to my office for an appointment."  Hans turned and
     gestured for Sergei to open the passenger door for him.
          "Just one question..."
          "I'm sorry," Hans said as he stepped into the car.  "It's a
     thirty minute drive from here to the Carapaquet and I have just
     thirty minutes to get there.  I barely met the lieutenant and have
     no idea what happened to him."
          "We know the man was injured, and that he refused to go to the
     hospital."  Mueller said.  "He was seen walking toward the Aldon
     with his arm in a sling."
          "Then look for him there."  Hans said and motioned inpatiently
     for Sergei to shut the passenger door,
          "He left there."
          "Perhaps he went back to his unit."
          "No."  Mueller was looking at him hard.  "No Wehrmacht unit in
     this area has never heard of him."
          Hans raised his eyebrows.  "There was a woman with him.  What
     does she say?"
          "Very little.  She had a concussion and a ruptured spleen and
     had just come out of surgery.  She said she just met him yesterday,
     at the hotel.  The hotel manager said that did seem to be the case.
     She spent the afternoon with him, then they had dinner together.
     She said he was very pleasant."
          Hans shrugged and motioned again.  This time Sergei shut the
     door and walked around to the driver's side.
          As they pulled away, Sergei kept glancing into the rear view
     mirror.  "He's going in to the house."
          Hans grunted in reply.
          When he had to stop at a corner, Sergei looked back.  The col-
     onel was looking intently at the book he had brought out with him.
     A letter was beside him on the seat.


          Gestapo Captain Mueller was shown upstairs by a subdued Gas-
     ton.  He found Madeleine lying in her bed looking feverish with a
     doctor taking her pulse.  He saw the doctor's bag open on the
     bureau but he did not see the damp sponge they'd used to make her
     look as if she were sweating.  It was under the covers, soaking
     into the mattress.
          "Gestapo Captain Hermann Mueller," he said.
          "This woman is ill," the doctor said abruptly.  He put her
     wrist down.  Only then did he turn and look at Mueller.  The doctor
     was a youngish man, tall and thin and he looked exhausted.
          "I won't take much of her time," Mueller said.
          "I hope not."  The doctor sat back in the chair he had pulled
     up beside the bed, preparing to wait.  Gaston was still hovering in
     the doorway.
          "Get out, doctor," Mueller said.  "I intend to see her alone."
          "If you insist."  The doctor rose.
          "Shut the door when you leave and take the boy with you."
          "We'll be in the kitchen, Madeleine.  Call if you need any-
     thing." He made a careful circle around the Gestapo man and was at
     the door before Mueller told him to wait.
          He turned back.
          "Were you in the square by the Aldon Hotel last night?"
          "I was helping near the rail yards.  The damage was heavy and
     there were a great many casualties."
          "And the boy?"
          "Gaston," the doctor called.
          The boy reappeared in the doorway.  He stood quietly and
     looked Mueller in the eye.
          Mueller's eyes narrowed.  "You work at the Cafe Ardiet so you
     were in the square during the fire."
          "Yes, sir."
          "Did you see a German lieutenant with black curly hair.  A big
     man.  He was in the cafe with a small French woman in a blue
     dress."
          "I saw them in the cafe before the raid.  They were eating
     dinner."
          "What about later, after he was hauled out of the cellar?"
          "No.  Monsieur Ardiet sent me to make sure our Aunt Clothilde
     was all right and then, when my sister Madeleine still hadn't
     appeared, he told me to find her. Then ..."
          "Enough." Mueller lifted an angry hand and the boy moved back
     a step.  "Get out.  Both of you."
          When the door was closed, he turned on Madeleine.  "Now about
     this man."


          Karl's plane was 30 minutes late.  Schuster had everything
     ready when Hans got there, so he stayed in the car and worked on
     the letter.  The message wasn't long.  He had just finished it when
     the plane came in for a landing.
          As Karl came down the four steps at the back of the plane, the
     line of the small honor guard snapped to attention, eyes forward.
     Hans stood in front of them with Schuster at his left, Erich von
     Feber next, and finally Schmidt.
          Hans saluted smartly as Karl's foot touched the tarmac.  Karl
     returned that salute, but he didn't smile.
          Hans introduced each of his officers in turn.  Karl greeted
     both Schuster and Schmidt with obvious pleasure and Erich von
     Feber, whom he did not know, with interest.  "I served with your
     father in France," he said.  "A fine man and a superb cavalry offi-
     cer.  His death was a great loss to us all."
          "Sir."  Von Feber inclined his head in acknowledgement.
          Then Karl reviewed the honor guard,  complimented the sergeant
     on their appearance, then walked the ten feet to the staff car
     where Sergei was standing at attention, holding open the door to
     the passenger side.  Sergei's eyes did not leave Karl's as he
     snapped his salute with precision.  Karl returned his salute then
     smiled at last and got into the car.  "You look fit, Sergei."
          "Thank you, sir," he said as he shut the door.  "So do you."
     Then he walked around to the other side of the car and opened the
     back door for Hans.
          "Where is Ulrich?" Karl asked.
          For a moment, Hans concentrated on settling himself into the
     seat.  "He died in the air raid last night."
          Karl was suddenly still.  Then he blinked twice.  "He survived
     the Polish campaign, the French.  Over a year on the eastern front.
     Almost bled to death when he lost that arm, but he survived all
     that.  Now, in France, with no fighting ...  A good man.  A ter-
     rible loss."
          "I served with him in 1940."  Hans cleared his throat.  "And
     again here.  He was a good friend.  It's hard."
          "An only son."  Karl shifted in his seat.  "Two sisters, but
     an only son.  I will write them.  Where did he die?"
          "In the basement of the cafe, with me."
          The lines in Karl's face were deep and his cheeks seemed to
     sag.  "Von Feber has taken over his command?"
          "Yes," Hans said.  "He was already the battalion intelligence
     officer when I got here and it was Ulrich who advised me to keep
     him."  He gave Karl a brief history.  "He is at least as good as
     Ulrich said he was. And he is with us in this.  The way he played
     the Gestapo ..."  Hans shook his head in admiration.  "I asked him
     if he could get in and out of a tank.  He said that he could. So I
     told him that he could have the command if he wanted it.  He just
     stood there looking at me.  I waited.  Finally he cleared his
     throat and said, 'Thank you.  I'd like that.'  I don't think it
     even occurred to him that it also meant that he'd be promoted to
     major."
          Karl grunted.  "I hope he still likes it when the invasion
     comes."
          "No news?"
          "No news.  At the moment."
          "There is something else I need to talk to you about."
          Karl jerked his head in Sergei's direction.
          "Sergei already knows."   Then Hans told Karl all about Peter,
     including the letter he had just decoded.
          The cynacism of that damnable Michael Compton in sending Peter
     is appalling, no matter what the reason.  First he uses you, his
     wife's son.  Then he uses her nephew.  Next it will be James.  How
     does she stand it?"  When there was no reply, Karl said, "At least
     he doesn't expect you to send intelligence.  What I want to know is
     why he would ask you?  How could he know you were involved?"
          "My letter of resignation must have given him the idea."
          "What does Peter know about any of this."
          "He knows the plot exists and that I'm involved.  That's all."
          Karl gave an exasperated jerk of his head.  "And this woman.
     How much does she know?"
          "Nothing about the plot.  Only about Peter.  And for the
     record, I don't like her being involved any more than you do.  If
     there had been any way to do it, I would have gotten him out of
     there myself, but there was no choice."
          "Will she really keep him safe?"
          "I hope so. Her life depends on it."
          "So do ours," Karl said.
          "The Gestapo was on its way into her house as I was leaving."
          "How will she stand up to that?"
          "Better, than most."
          "Not a ringing endorsement."
          "I didn't - don't - want her involved."  Hans' had his thumbs
     clenched inside his fists.  "Too much can happen when a woman gets
     involved."
          "Is she with the Resistance?"
          Hans looked up sharply.  "No."
          "How can you be sure?  And if she's not, how will she get him
     out of town?   His uniform won't do him any good, especially since
     the papers he has to go with it are compromised.  He'll need dif-
     ferent papers, other clothes and a place to go. That's not easy."
          "Apparently he has other papers, and he came from somewhere.
     There's no reason why he shouldn't go back there.  Also, she has a
     large family that's spread out all over Normandy.  If he can't go
     back to where he came from, she'll find someone to help him."
          "Family can be a blessing or a curse." Karl sighed.  "And
     these days, how can one be sure, even of family?  Someone is too
     fearful or talks to someone they shouldn't.  Or has a grudge and
     simply betrays her.  Or is caught and talks to save himself.  Or
     she is caught,  Or Peter ..."  He shook his head.
          "There's nothing to be done about any of it," Hans shifted in
     his seat.  "If it happens, it happens."
          "All right then." Karl grabbed Hans' shoulder and made him
     turn to look at him.  "We'll take what this Michael Compton has
     done and use it.  We'll open negotiations with the Allies now.  The
     invasion can't come until spring so there's still time.  You see
     Peter, before they move him somewhere inaccessible and give him the
     terms to take back to England.  After this lunch you've scheduled
     for me in Caen with your divisional commander.  He is sstill in
     Caen, isn't he?"
          "After lunch you're scheduled to review Schuster's battalion,"
     Hans said.  "And tomorrow is fully scheduled.  You inspect what is
     now von Feber's battalion, then lunch with all my officers, then
     the quarter master, then the field repair unit.  Originally I
     wanted you to put the fear of God into them but now there's bno
     need.  The master sergeant was running a black market operation
     with the connivance of the captain in charge.  They used the trucks
     in for repair to make deliveries to Paris.  We couldn't touch him
     because the operation also had the Gestapo's blessing.  Until yes-
     terday.  Schmidt went over himself to make sure things were ready
     for the inspection and found that Sergeant Kriebel was running
     another operation on the side, one even the Gestapo didn't know
     about, selling gasoline and tires.  The field police took him into
     custody late this morning."
          "With does the Gestapo have to say about that?"
          "He was stealing from the army, so it's an army matter.  They
     can't say a word."
          "For once," Karl said grimly.  "Now about seeing Peter ..."
          "This evening," said Hans.  "I kept it just for the two of us.
     It will have to be brief because I have to take you along.  It
     would look odd if I left you long enough to go into town alone.  So
     I'd just stop by as if I were checking up on her.  She's pretending
     to be ill so there's a reason for the doctor to come and go."   He
     frowned.  "You could wait in the car."
          "She'd think it peculiar if I didn't go in.  Besides, I want
     to meet her."  He shrugged.  "She doesn't need to know I'm
     involved.  I'll just say hello, chat for a moment, then go back out
     to the car and leave you alone to say ... whatever you want to say,
     including what you have to say to Peter.  If it weren't for Peter,
     I would be glad about her. You have mourned Annaliese long and
     hard.  Justifiably.  She was a remarkable woman.  But it's more
     than time you got on with your life.  But there is Peter and she is
     French."   He was silent for a long moment.  "Peter is a good boy.
     Smart, resourceful, physically strong.  If anyone can get back to
     England, he can.  But as glad as I am to have him for a conduit and
     as sad as I would have been to hear that he had died, I almost wish
     that he had."
          "I couldn't let him die in that cellar."
          "I understand that." Then Karl's voice hardened.  "That's what
     Michael Compton was counting on.  But what he refused to realize
     was that not even Peter can be allowed to interfere with what we're
     trying to do."


          Peter lay still, blinking through the gloom.  Something had
     woken him abruptly and he was frightened.
          "Are you awake?" Madeleine asked.
          "Yes," he breathed in relief.
          "Are you in pain?"
          He considered that.  His head was one deep, pounding ache.  He
     lifted his shoulder a bare inch and felt a stab of pain that made
     him let it fall back.
          "Are you in pain?" she asked again.
          "My head hurts and so does my shoulder when I move it."
          He heard a rustle of cloth.
          "Your pain pills."
          "No," he said.  "They make it hard to think and I need to
     think.  I also need to sit up.  Will you help me?"
          "The doctor says you should stay still."
          Peter remembered only vaguely that a doctor had been there, a
     thin tired man.  "What else did your doctor say?"
          "What Major Brandt said, that you have a concussion, a broken
     collar bone, a damaged shoulder and some broken ribs.  He taped
     them but even so, it's best if you don't move for a time."
          "I have to get out of here."
          "You may faint again."
          "I didn't faint getting up here until I fell on the stairs.
          He heard feet scuffling, then a scratching on the wall and a
     muffled voice calling, "Madeleine!"
          "It's my brother," she said.
          The panel opened, letting in a light that was almost blinding.
     A boy backed in, pulling a bag after himself.  Then he and his sis-
     ter engaged in a quick whispered conversation.
          After a moment, Gaston looked around at Peter.  "I am supposed
     to tell you that the French woman is getting better.  Her hotel
     bill has been paid and her things are at the hospital, with her, so
     she can leave whenever that is possible.  You are not to worry.
     She will be taken care of."
          Then Gaston turned back to his sister.  "I've got to tell Guy
     he's conscious."
          "Where is Guy?"  Madeleine asked.
          "Aunt Clothilde's."
          "You stay.  I'll go."
          "No!"
          "Yes," she pushed him aside.
          She got out before he could grab her.  He followed.
          "I have to go," Gaston protested.  "He asked me to tell him if
     the American was conscious.  We have to get him out of here."
          "That's ridiculous!"  She looked up from half way down the
     steep stair case.
          "The Gestapo's going to search the town."
          "When?"
          "All we know is that they're going to search," he said.  "No
     when.  But he has to be moved before they get here."
          She paled.  "Why?  This house was searched once before and
     they didn't find the hole."
          "Guy says they will this time," Gaston squeaked down at her.
     "Besides, he's conscious and he's talking.  That means he's going
     to be all right."
          "That may not last.  You heard the doctor. This can come and
     go.  And there's his shoulder and his ribs are broken.  If he moves
     too much, one can pierce a lung and make it collapse."
          "Guy will tend to him," the boy said with waning confidence.
          Madeleine just looked at him.  "Tell him about the Gestapo
     before I get back" - Her thumb jerked back toward the hole in the
     wall. - "and I'll kill you."
          The phone started to ring.


          "Should I talk to keep you awake?" Gaston asked Peter doubt-
     fully.
          "No."  Peter tried to smile.  "But you should talk to tell me
     what's so secret that you had to stand out there whispering with
     your sister."
          "There's not much happening outside right now."
          The boy had said it so slowly that Peter knew that if nothing
     was happening now, something was going to happen soon, and that
     whatever it was, it didn't mean good things for him.
          "So perhaps," the boy said with a diffidence that would have
     surprised anyone who knew him, "you should talk to keep yourself
     awake.  You could tell me about America."
          Peter heard real interest in his voice.  It was something he
     had experienced before and knew that what any European boy really
     wanted to hear was that the Wild West still lived and that there
     gangsters galore.  "It's not what you think," he said slowly. "In a
     way, it's a lot like France, except that we don't drink nearly so
     much wine.
          "People do very much the same things.  They have families and
     they work and go to church."  He shifted slightly.  "But because
     there's so much more land, houses are bigger and towns are farther
     apart.  Freight cars are bigger, twice as big, because they have to
     haul goods so much farther.  And there are big lakes, five called
     the Great Lakes which are as big as seas."  That brought to mind
     his summers with James and John.  And so he started talking about
     that and about them, especially about John, though he said nothing
     about Hans Richter.
          He talked for a long time.
          The boy was fascinated and Peter was comforted.


          "We have to move him," Guy said angrily.  "There's no choice.
     It's known that he came out of the cellar with you and the colo-
     nel.  He's already under suspicion as a subversive.  Given your
     association with him, then'll tear your house apart."
          "If he falls ... If he dies, what then?" Madeleine asked.
          "There are worse things than dying, especially where the Ges-
     tapo is concerned.  In fact, it would be easier if he died, espe-
     cially because it would be apparent that he died from his inju-
     ries."
          "You're going to kill him?"
          "I'm tempted," said Guy.  "It would solve a lot of problems.
     No," he said hastily when she recoiled.  "I'm not.  If the Allies
     went to all this trouble to send him, he's here for something
     important.  Has he told you what it is?"
          "No."
          "Never mind.  He'll have to eventually.  Do he still have his
     French papers?"
          "Yes."
          "Then I'll send Babbette.  Wew'll dye his hair.  I'll get his
     papers fixed.  Different clothes ..."
          "Hans and his uncle, a colonel general are coming from Berlin
     sometime after 5.  He just called."
          "For God's sake, Madeleine!"
          "I tried to put him off but he insisted.  What could I say?"
     It puzzled her as much as it angered Guy.
          "Nothing.  Nothing," he said.  "But we'll have to move fast if
     we're going to get him out by then.



          The luncheon given for Karl by Hans' commanding officer at the
     Caen fortress was something less than a success.  Ordinarily, fresh
     Dover sole, good wine and the excellence of the local cheese would
     have made up for a great deal.  But this day, little could compen-
     sate for the company of the division commander who was both stiff-
     necked and supercilious.  The fact that he also took obsequious
     delight in entertaining an aristocratic member of the general staff
     made things even worse.   It was further aggravated by their con-
     cern about Peter.
          And so it was with relief that Karl and Hans walked out into
     the chill of the early November sun.
          That relief faded at the sight of Erich von Feber's face as he
     hurried toward them.
          He stopped, saluted smartly, then looked at Hans.  "I need to
     speak with you, sir."
          "I'll wait in the car," Karl said and walked across the small
     square toward the staff car where Sergei was holding the passenger
     door open for him.
          "I'm sorry, sir," von Feber said, "but you need to know that
     the Gestapo is organizing a systematic search of the city.  The
     lieutenant who came out of the cellar with you has disappeared.
     The Gestapo thinks he's a spy and they want him badly."
          Hans looked away, his fingers tapping against his thigh.
          Von Feber waited.
          "Fritz Heiligmann told you?"
          "Yes."
          Hans turned and looked him full in the face. "It must have
     given him a great deal of pleasure."
          "He reveled in it," von Feber said bitterly.  "Said that he
     had warned me about you, that when they caught this man, they'd
     all the proof they'd need and you would be shot, which was no more
     than you deserved.  He was warning me because he didn't want me
     caught in the cross-fire.  Our battalion is not to be part of the
     search.  We won't even be informed.  Even the division commander
     won't be told until the last minute.  They're going to use mainly
     SS troops and the field police.  He told me to be careful.  Is this
     man a spy?"
          "I haven't the vaguest idea."
          "So he wasn't the one crying out in English in the cellar."
     Von Feber was looking at Hans intently.
          "If he were, it would have been my responsibility to report
     it."
          There was a long pause.
          "I still think, sir ...  You are going to be the special focus
     of this search.  Will you and the Colonel General be coming back
     into Caen?"
          "He and I are coming back into Caen to have dinner this eve-
     ning, alone," Hans said stiffly.  "At the Aldon.  Why?"
          "If they were to start the search this evening ..."  He took
     in a deep breath.  "Sir, I'm worried.  I think it would be safer if
     you dined at your headquarters.  But if you do need to go into
     Caen, I would suggest you take some motorcycle outriders with you.
     Even better, Schuster and I could come as well, in a second car.
     They wouldn't be able to bother you then.  If you like, I could
     arrange it."
          "Thank you," Hans said carefully.  "If I think it's necessary,
     I'll call you."
          "Schuster and I are having dinner together.  You can contact
     me at his headquarters."   He snapped Hans a quick salute and
     turned away.
LAYOUT 000

STANDARD2
B
<
