
                              Chapter V

          "Gospodin!"
          Hans hit out through the darkness at the hand on his shoulder.  
     "It is Sergei, Gospodin. You are having a bad dream."  He lifted
     his hand.  "Are you all right?"
          Hans lay still blinking through the darkness, still not sure
     where he was.  But he knew he was all right.  He could move and
     there was no pain.
          "Are you all right?" Sergei asked again.
          "Yes."
          A warm breeze was coming through the open windows and enough
     moonlight streamed in to keep them from having to put up the black-
     out curtains to turn on the light.  There was no guttering candle,
     no stink, no pain and no Russian shells shaking the earth and mak-
     ing concrete dust fall in streams from the ceiling of the cellar.  
     It was quiet.  He was in France.  His muscles relaxed.
          "You must get up, please.  You are wet with sweating and so
     are the sheets.  You must be dry and warm or you will be ill
     again."
          But Hans' feet felt too heavy to move so he just lay there.  
     He had heard Annaliese's voice in his dream, calling to him, lift-
     ing him above the pain of that cellar in Stalingrad.  He had been
     trying to get to her but Schuster and Schmidt had pulled him back,
     telling him it wasn't time to go.  He tried to hang on to the com-
     fort of her voice but the images faded and the sound of it left
     him.  There was a terrible sorrow in that.
          "Please, sit up," Sergei said and Hans felt a hand under his
     back.  He made the effort it took to swing his legs over the side
     of the bed.  In one swift motion, Sergei  helped him swing around,
     lifted him to his feet and handed him a towel.
          They worked in silence,  Hans stripping and toweling himself
     down, Sergei changing the bed.
          When Sergei was done, he asked Hans if he needed anything
     more.
          "No."  Hans pulled on an undershirt over his head.  "Thank you
     very much."
          "You're welcome.  I'm sad about your dream.  Such dreams are
     bad things.  Many men have them now, I think."
          "I'm sure they do," Hans said, wearily.
          Sergei was just standing there.  Hans wanted him to go away,
     to leave him alone to sleep, if he could.
          "I would like to say, sir, that when I have bad thoughts and
     cannot sleep from such a dream, I try to relive one of the nicest
     days of my life."
          "And just what does such a day consist of?"
          "The best is the day I went fishing by Lake Ladoga with my
     father," he said with dignity.  "I did not have many whole days
     with my father.  He was away a great deal."
          "I'm sorry."
          "So am I," Sergei said briskly.  "Is there anything more you
     require?"
          "Nothing.  Thank you.  I appreciate what you've done."
          Hans saw his nod of acknowledgment and then Sergei was gone.
          The nicest day of my life, Hans thought bitterly and thrust
     all thoughts of Annaliese aside.  The pain of thinking about her
     was too physical to be borne.
          He went to the tray on the small table beside the windows
     where there were clean glasses and two bottles, one, half finished,
     of wine and one of brandy.  He poured himself two fingers of
     brandy.
          Sergei's words came again, "... one of the nicest days of my
     life."  At the moment he couldn't think of a nice day,  His mind
     was a blank.
          But then a small picture appeared in the center of the black-
     ness.  Originally it was too small to be seen, but as he stood,
     glass in hand, it grew until it became bigger than life, surround-
     ing him, covering his whole range of vision.  The colors were vivid
     and he could smell the smells and hear the sounds.  The sweet smell
     of new mown hay was in the air, and there were other smells, dust,
     a bit of pine, boy sweat.   He felt the itch of that sweat as it
     turned the dust on his skin to fine body mud.  He saw the gray of
     the stone of the kitchen garden wall, and all of the greens, the
     trees in the forest that stretched off to the south for miles, the
     individual trees that surrounded the mass of Karl's stone house and
     the green of the long lawn in front of it.  He could feel the cool
     of that grass against his face as he lay on it.  Bees feasted in
     the flower beds in the gardens behind and in front of the house.  
     And there were sounds: birds in profusion; the wind in the trees;
     laughter; shouts.  Each sound was separate and distinct from any
     other sound.  It wasn't noise.  They were sounds, wonderful sounds.
          He lowered the glass to the table.
          It was 16 years before.  He was 12 years old; it was summer;
     and he was on Karl's estate in East Prussia.  His brother James was
     there, a solidly built 16 year old.  James was laughing and there
     was a smudge of dirt on his face.  Peter was there, too, their 13
     year old cousin, over from America to be with them for the summer.  
     They were playing cricket.
          Their mother had groaned when she opened the James' trunk and
     saw a cricket bat, stumps and bales for two sets of wickets and six
     or so cricket balls smashing down the carefully packed clothes.  
     But then she laughed, shook her head and said, "James" in the way
     she had that told him how much she loved him.  She lifted it all
     out and handed it over to him, telling him to take it out to the
     tack room where it would be out of the way.
          James had decided he was going to be the best cricketeer in
     school and that his brother and Peter were going to help him.
          Peter had seen cricket played only once, when he was visiting
     them in London. Being the good baseball player he was, at first he
     tried to swing the cricket bat like a baseball bat, but he soon
     caught on and began advancing the bat carefully toward the ball.  
     He was tall and strong, taller and stronger than James even though
     he was three years younger.  Even at 13, he was very well coordi-
     nated.
          John, on the other hand, was small for his age, but he was
     quick and had a knack as a bowler.  He was beginning to be able to
     throw a googley that could give James fits, when it was on.
          They had started playing right after lunch in front of the
     stone wall that ran around the kitchen garden and the green house
     so that they wouldn't need a wicket keeper.  As was to be expected,
     James batted first, with Peter fielding and John bowling.  James
     practiced blocking and ball placement, working to keep the ball
     within the boundaries they had set.  But finally he saw they were
     getting restless and starting lobbing the ball so they could get
     him out.
          That was the day when things came together for John for the
     first time.  He was batting better than he ever had, especially
     when Peter was bowling; catching everything that came his way, rol-
     ling sliding, coming up with the ball clutched in his hand when it
     shouldn't have been possible; and bowling better than he ever had.
          After tea, Karl came out with them and fielded for a time
     though he had never played, never even seen cricket played.  He did
     remarkably well at fielding.  Finally he couldn't resist and asked
     for a turn at bat.
          John was the bowler and he went easy on him because he thought
     he would be hopeless.  But Karl managed to block a remarkable num-
     ber of bowls before he was finally bowled out.
          Just as he went back into the field, Otto appeared and said
     there was a call from Berlin. Karl hurried off and they were sorry
     to see him go.  Their eyes followed him and there were sideways
     grins at each other because the "old man" had done well, though of
     course they hadn't presumed to tell him that.
          They played on, swapping batsmen whenever someone was out.  It
     was getting dark when John came up for what they all knew would be
     the turn. He was blocking and hitting well, but suddenly he got
     tired of placement and simply hit it.  There was a wonderful sharp
     crack and the ball went way off into the woods on the left.  They
     all ran to the spot at the edge of the woods where it had gone in. 
     John dropped the bat and left it there while they all went into the
     gloom under the trees and shuffled carefully through the mat of
     leaves on the forest floor, each trying to be the one who found it.  
     They all saw the ball at the same time, propped up against the ele-
     vated roots of an oak and ran toward it, each wanting to be the
     first to get it.   They collapsed in a heap, grabbing, then falling
     back laughing as John came up with it.
          Hans found himself longing for them and for a time when life
     was so uncomplicated and all things were possible.  And for a time
     when there was always next summer.
          He let his mind go blank again and this time he was at Peter's
     family's summer cottage on Lake Erie, near Conneaut.  He was moving
     in a stream of liquid clay as he made his way down the face of the
     cliff while cliff swallows swooped and soared.   A few years later
     he had had his first sexual experience in the tall grass at the top
     of that same cliff.  He had been breathless and clumsy and utterly
     in love.  And now he couldn't even remember her name.
          The next morning, Sergei hung the colonel's shirt in the
     closet.  When he was done, he looked around to make sure everything
     was as it should be.  Sergei liked these rooms.  They were the nic-
     est room he'd been in, other than the colonel general's house,
     since he and his mother had been forced to leave Leningrad.  The
     furniture was a bit shabby, probably because of the war, but it was
     comfortable, and the rooms themselves were spacious with long
     leaded windows that let in a great deal of light.
          The view from Sergei's narrow room and from the colonel's bed-
     room was limited, looking out over the back grounds of the hotel.  
     There was a small garden and a gravel courtyard in front of a long
     garage which used to be stables and which had rooms for the hotel's
     help and the drivers across the top.  But the sitting room windows
     looked out across a broad agricultural valley toward Caen to the
     west.  It was a long view and he found it liberating to be able to
     look that far.  At least he did when he was alone and he was alone
     a great deal.  He was used to that, but there were times when he
     would have liked someone to talk to, someone who might become a
     friend.  He doubted that was possible here.
          Most of the German enlisted men he knew were men not unlike
     himself, though usually not as well educated.  Not that that mat-
     tered to him.  Sergei was a man who got along well with almost
     everyone.  He had always had a lot of friends but they were Russian
     friends, men who instinctively understood what he was talking
     about, men with common assumptions about life and a common hatred
     of Stalin and what he was doing to Russia.
          There was a battalion of Russians stationed a few miles to the
     east.  He could have gone to see them any time, to talk Russian and
     eat Russian food because they were supposed to have an excellent
     Russian cook.  But he didn't want to see them.  Their world was
     even less real than his because they were trying to create a Rus-
     sian world where it didn't belong, a Russia in France created by
     men who had taken the German schilling to save their own lives, who
     had become traitors to Russia for their own profit, It shamed him,
     especially because he considered himself one of them.
          He wore a German uniform, ate German food, drove a German
     officer in a German car, was even learning to talk German reason-
     ably well.  So he, too, had taken the German schilling, even if he
     wouldn't fight for Germany.  But no matter what he did, even if he
     lived in Germany for the rest of his life, he would never be Ger-
     man.  The Germans didn't want him and he didn't want them.
          He found their world insane, even more insane than the world
     he had left because at least his friends in Russia were united in
     recognizing that insanity.  If the enlisted men he knew in the Ger-
     man army recognized that insanity, they weren't talking about it,
     at least not to him.  Even the colonel and the colonel general
     hadn't said anything to him directly, but he knew they hated what
     was happening in Germany, just as he knew they were trying to do
     something about that hatred.  He wasn't sure what they were plan-
     ning, but he guessed that it had to mean killing Adolf Hitler.  
     That was sanity for Sergei in an insane German world.  Sergei hoped
     with a viciousness that was rare for him, that they would succeed.  
     They were good men.
          The colonel general had taken him into his own home, then seen
     to it that he was assigned to a place where he might be able to
     surrender to the English when the fighting did come.  It had not
     escaped Sergei's notice that this was possible only because he had
     seen to it that the colonel was assigned to such a place as well.  
     He found that very interesting.
          He was startled out of his thoughts by a voice coming from the
     doorway.  "Sergei?"
          "Yes, Captain Schmidt."
          "I have some letters the colonel would like to have locked up
     in his desk."  He walked into the sitting room holding them out.  
     "They're personal."
          "Thank you."  Sergei stood there holding them, not wanting to
     emphasize the fact that he had a key to the desk while Schmidt did
     not.
          "Are you finding everything you need?"  Schmidt always spoke
     German slowly and carefully which made him easier to understand.
          "I need new tires for the staff car.  Is such a thing pos-
     sible?" He had learned fast that very few things were impossible
     for Schmidt.
          "Of course," Schmidt said stiffly.
          "I did not mean..."
          "Of course, of course."  Schmidt waved a hand to indicate that
     it was nothing.  "It's just ...  We have been here for eight days
     and this afternoon we all have to present our reports to the colo-
     nel."
          Because they were speaking German, Schmidt had to say it a
     second time before Sergei fully understood.  When he did under-
     stand, Sergei was surprised.   "You are afraid?" The words came out
     before he had time to consider them.
          Schmidt's face reddened.  "No."  Then he shifted from one foot
     to the other and shrugged.  "It's the first real report I've ever
     had to make."
          "The first time for anything is difficult."  Sergei hesitated. 
     "You and Major Schuster and the colonel have been together for a
     long time. If you wouldn't mind, some time when you have time,
     would you tell me about that time?  I would like to know." It had
     occurred to him more than once that Schmidt might have the answer
     to the dreams.  It would help him to help the colonel if he knew
     what it was all about.
          "I do have a little time now," Schmidt said doubtfully.
          And you don't want to think about this report you have prob-
     ably been staying up late at night to finish, Sergei thought,
     because you are afraid Majors Wagner and von Feber will laugh at it
     and you behind your back.  "And I have nothing more to do here.  
     The colonel is a very neat man.  Shall I get some beer and we can
     sit by the river?"
          "Fine.  It is a nice day."  Schmidt looked relieved and Sergei
     knew it was because the river bank was secluded and it did not do
     for a German officer to seem to be too friendly with an enlisted
     man, especially a Russian enlisted man. The thought made him sad.  
     He was beginning to like Schmidt, and he could see that Schmidt was
     not comfortable as an officer.  That made Schmidt lonely and lone-
     liness could be very difficult.

          Fifteen minutes later they were sitting by the river.
          Sergei was on the ground, leaning against the tree that was
     shading him, beer bottle in hand, four more beside him on the
     ground along with the German-Russian dictionary Karl von der Greif
     had given him before he left Berlin.  It was the colonel general's
     own - His name was in it. - and it was old, worn and very well-
     used.  He said he had carried it with him in Russia, between the
     wars.  Though Sergei wished it was smaller so he could carry it in
     his pocket, he wanted no other.  It was, to him, both a great kind-
     ness and something that he could relate to the colonel general's
     association with his father.
          Schmidt was sitting in an old wooden kitchen chair, leaning
     the back of it against the same tree, beer bottle in hand, staring
     off into the distance.  He was not a big man, only marginally
     taller than Hans Richter, but far heavier, stocky without being
     fat.  He had black hair smoothed back close to his head, dark eyes,
     high cheek bones and a small mouth all set a bit too much in the
     middle of a round face.  It was a closed face, one that didn't give
     much away.
          "What do you want to know?" Schmidt asked abruptly.
          "It is ...," Sergei sighed. While he was beginning to under-
     stand what was said to him, it was still hard for him to express
     himself in German.  "I don't like talking about this since it is
     the colonel's business, but I worry.  He has bad dreams.  They
     upset him very much.   He cries out and hits the wall and he
     sweats.  I can't understand much of what he says, but I know he is
     afraid.  And he is in pain, I think.  There are bombs falling and
     he calls the name of his wife.  But he also calls your name and
     Major Schuster's.  That is why I ask you."
          Sergei looked up and saw Schmidt's profile.  His face was very
     still.
          "I wish to help him," Sergei said softly.
          Schmidt nodded.
          Sergei accepted the silence.  He just sat, drank his beer  and
     looked off into the distance while he waited.
          "We have been together for a long time." Schmidt said slowly.  
     "Schuster and I were in his tank crew in France in 1940.  There was
     a break of a year and a half, then Russia."  There was another
     silence as he drank his beer and contemplated. "Are there rats?"
     Schmidt's voice was hoarse.
          "Yes," Sergei said in surprise.  "There are also rats."
          "They were everywhere," Schmidt said.
          Sergei could see he was sweating which surprised him.  It was
     not a hot day.
          "You could hear them rustling around, see those little yellow
     eyes burning in the dark if you had a candle.  It got so I almost
     hated candles, but you needed to see them when they came.  Schuster
     and I ... One of us was awake most of the time to keep the rats off
     him and off each other.  But finally we got smart.  Food was so
     short and Schuster is clever.  He was raised on a farm."   He put
     down his empty beer bottle and reached for another.  Sergei popped
     the top off a full one and handed it to him.  He took it without
     noticing.
          "He made a trap and we caught them.  Then we waited until a
     building was on fire or someone had found enough wood to start one.  
     It was so cold."  He shuddered. "We'd kill what we had and clean
     and roast them.  I'm sure that's how I got dysentery.  They were
     covered with fleas."
          "There was no food by that time, unless you call a little
     flour mixed with saw dust or wallpaper paste food."  Schmidt took a
     long swallow of beer then wiped his mouth with the back of his
     hand.  "After Hans had his we would share out with the other men in
     the cellar. - There were eight of us. - and they would help out
     with Hans, too, if we asked.  But sometimes others would come and
     occasionally there were fights.  Other men were starving and wanted
     to take what we had.  If there was enough, we'd share but more
     often there wasn't. Schuster would show them how to make traps, if
     that was possible, if it wasn't ..." He shrugged.  "Rats don't
     taste too bad, if you cook them right.  And these were fat rats. 
     They fed off the dead, and there were plenty of dead."  He twisted
     uncomfortably in the chair.  "I didn't like that part.  It made me
     feel like a cannibal.  But if it weren't for the rats, all three of
     us would have died."  He concentrated on picking small pieces of
     lint off his trousers.
          "But you want to know about the colonel's dreams.  The bombs
     weren't bombs.  We were being shelled.  I thought to myself that
     the Russians must have cornered the market on shells.  Two, three
     times a day and often at night.  There was no getting away from it.  
     It was so cold and there was no food and precious few shells to
     fire back.  Even ammunition for the rifles was rationed.  No shoot-
     ing unless the target was there.  Everything rationed.  Medical
     supplies.  Major Brandt was really upset about it.  He said there
     was almost nothing.  No medicines.  Only paper bandages.  No fuel
     to sterilize anything, so they used alcohol and reused it, more
     often than was safe.  And there were no more surgical gloves so the
     surgeons used the same alcohol to sterilize their hands, too.  The
     cases there was no way to treat were put in a hall at the far end
     of the the building we were using for a hospital.  Just in the
     hall.  On stretchers along the walls.  As people at the end of the
     hall died, the others were moved farther and farther down the hall
     to make room for more, until they died, too.  Everyone in the hall
     died.  They froze to death because the hall opened out on nothing.  
     The end of the building was bombed out and that's where the hall
     went.  Into the bombed out nothing.  It was supposed to be humane
     that way. Let them freeze.  You're not supposed to feel anything
     when you freeze, but you do.  I nearly froze once.  Everything
     hurts." Schmidt was sweating and his face was red.  "It would be
     more humane just to kill them, but who would do it?  Especially
     since there was not enough ammunition to shoot them.  It would have
     to be done with a knife, and who could do that?  Who could kill so
     many helpless men with a knife?  It would have been terrible for
     morale.
          "That's where we found him," Schmidt said quietly after a long
     pause. "The colonel was in the hall, half way down.  His leg wound
     was badly infected and since there were no bandages or medicine,
     there was nothing they could do for him.
          "He was taken to the hospital right after he was hit but when
     we went to see him the next day, we couldn't find him.  He was just
     gone and no one would say where he was until one of the medics
     mumbled something about the hall.  I didn't know what he was talk-
     ing about, but Schuster knew.  His face was white.  I'd never seen
     him like that.  He wouldn't explain.  He just pulled at me, made me
     go with him.  Wouldn't say a word.  That scared me more than any-
     thing else could have.  And when I saw all those men, lying there
     ..."  He wiped his hand down his face.  "All of them in rags, most
     in pain, whimpering.  Cold.  My God, it was cold.  And the stink."
     He lifted his face to the sky and Sergei could see that there were
     tears in his eyes.  "Hans was almost half way down.  A lot of men
     must have died."  He took a long pull on the beer.  "He was deliri-
     ous.  He had a paper bandage on his leg.  It was so ... filthy. He
     was so filthy.  Awful.  There was only one thin blanket over him."
     His hands twitched around the beer bottle and he turned to look at
     Sergei at last.  "If he was supposed to die, why did they bother
     with a blanket?"
          Sergei looked at his feet.  The lack of German words frus-
     trated him and since he didn't know how to say what he wanted to
     say, he said nothing.
          Schmidt looked away, his eyes roving the countryside and
     beyond.  "We took him away.  They didn't try to stop us.  That was
     good.  We would have fought."  He sighed.  "Schuster found a clean
     shirt.  God knows where.  He would never say.  There wasn't any-
     thing clean in Stalingrad. We got wood, -  It wasn't easy. - boiled
     some water in my helmet and Schuster cleaned the wound.  He knows
     about such things.  He sterilized his knife in the fire and cut
     away the dead tissue.  I can still see him, hunched over Hans' leg.  
     He was so careful but it hurt Hans so much.  We had nothing to give
     him for the pain, but if Schuster hadn't done it, Hans would have
     lost his leg.  At least that's what Dr. Brandt said.  Schuster was
     worried that he had done the wrong thing, so he asked Dr. Brandt.  
     We had done everything right."  There was pride in his voice.  "I
     got him a great coat, something to wrap him in, to keep him warm.  
     The man I got it from was dead.  The dead were stripped almost as
     they fell.  Boots especially.  But Hans had good boots.  They had
     taken his coat but he still had his boots.  His feet are smaller
     than most men's, so there must have been no one else they would
     fit."  The empty beer bottle went round and round between his
     hands.
          Sergei opened another, took the empty and replaced it without
     Schmidt even knowing.
          "It was almost too late," Schmidt said. "By that time, he had
     pneumonia.  Even so, we had to leave him part of the time.  As I
     said, there were other men in the cellar and they would watch him
     sometimes, but they couldn't always.  Too tired.  We still had to
     fight, to help defend the area.   Seven days later, Major Brandt
     appeared.  He just appeared. I'll never know how he found us.  It
     was almost frightening.  He was so clean, so healthy looking.  It
     made me realize ..."  He shook his head and took a long swallow of
     his beer.  "There were two guards with him.  He had a back pack
     filled with iron rations and medical supplies.  My God.  We divided
     the food with everyone in the cellar, including his guards.  There
     wasn't too much but it seemed like a feast.  Nothing ever tasted so
     good." He laughed.  It was a short sharp sound.  "Major Brandt
     wouldn't touch anything.  He said it was for us. Then he went to
     Hans.  I couldn't watch. I knew what he'd see.  He was very quiet.  
     Schuster helped him.  Said there were tears streaming down his face
     but his hands didn't waver.  He had morphine with him.  Gave Hans
     some.  Hans was lucid but he didn't think he was because Major
     Brandt was there.
          "When he finally realized it really was the major and that the
     colonel general had come and was going to take him out ...  Schus-
     ter told me, Hans said he wouldn't go, not unless Schuster and I
     came with him."
          Schmidt took in a long ragged breath.  "We got out to the air-
     port in a truck full of wounded.  They were still taking out
     wounded then, at least some.  The ones they were sure would live
     even though they couldn't fight.  But by then everyone wanted to
     get out and there weren't enough planes.  There were never enough
     planes.  That was why we were starving.  So sometimes men would
     fight, the walking wounded trampling on the stretcher cases to get
     on the planes that were going back for more supplies.
          "Schuster and Hans and Major Brandt and I were sent to the
     other side of the air field in the ruins of a hanger to wait.  The
     colonel general and Major Pflueger met us there.  The colonel gen-
     eral's plane was to taxi over to get us.  We still had our rifles.  
     No one ever let go of his rifle in Stalingrad.  He told us ..."  He
     cleared his throat.  "The Colonel General told Majors Brandt and
     Pflueger to carry the stretcher, told us to have our rifles at the
     ready.  He took out his Luger.  Said we needed to be ready to
     shoot.  I did as I was told but I couldn't believe it.  The plane
     taxied toward us and there were men chasing it because it was
     empty.  They had rifles.  We had to shoot."
          He stopped and sat up straight, looking around almost as if he
     was surprised to see where he was.  "I have talked too much." He
     leaned forward, his hand on his thigh, his face hard.  "You are
     Russian.  We fight Russians. We kill Russians."
          "Yes," said Sergei carefully.  "And Russians do the same to
     Germans because Adolf Hitler chooses that you come to take our land
     so there is room for Germany to expand.  Do you want Russian land?"
          Schmidt looked away.
          "I think you do not," said Sergei.  "I think you would like to
     go back to the wife and son you love so much and run work in the
     store that your father must work in though he is old and sick.  I
     do not want Russian land any more myself.  Josef Stalin killed my
     father and ruined my mother's life.  She could not go back to her
     family in England after he was killed.  They wanted her to come but
     the government would not let her,  would not even tell her the fam-
     ily wanted her back until after she died.
          "I fight for Russia because I must.  I fight or I die.  They
     will kill me if I do not fight.  There was a gun at my back to make
     me go and fight.  I think it is very strange that men must put guns
     at the backs of other men so they will kill other men so the kill-
     ing can stop.  War is stupid.  If Germany takes Russia, what will
     you do with it?  No one in the Soviet Union will like that.  They
     will fight anyone who comes and many men will die and women and
     children.  That is not peace.  Only if everyone stays at home and
     refuses to kill anyone else will war stop.
          "I think you have had to kill many men.  It is the way tanks
     are."
          Schmidt was looking at his feet.  He made no sound, no ges-
     ture, no movement at all.
          Sergei was frustrated by the difficulty he was having express-
     ing himself, and knew he had to sound like an ignorant fool but he
     persisted because he really wanted Schmidt to understand.
          "I have killed men.  They shoot at me.  I shoot at them.  I do
     not like it but the men are not near to me so I am able to do it.  
     But there was one who made me stop.  I kill him close.  He is
     young.  He is frightened.  I am frightened.  He is wounded.  I
     would leave him there but he come at me to kill me so I must kill
     him.  I stick my bayonet in him.  He scream, so I do it again and
     again until he stop.  Then I run and kill some more but I do not
     look at their faces.  But that one, he was young like me and I see
     his face.  I dream his face and hear him scream.  He is like me.  I
     do not want to kill any more men like me.
          "You are a man like me.  You kill men but you do not like it,
     I think.  That is a good thing you did, saving the colonel.  I
     think you like doing that.  I wish to help the colonel.  You tell
     me ...  I understand many things now.  I wish to help him so I
     thank you.  You did not say too much.  I will say nothing of what
     you say to me.  It is the colonel's business and I do not wish to
     talk his business or yours with anyone.  But I talk with you
     because he calls your name in his dreams and I think you are a man
     I can talk to about such things." He rose slowly, dictionary in
     hand, then stooped to pick up all the bottles he could.   "I think
     you have luck. You have the colonel and you have Major Schuster.  
     You take care of each other for a long time.  And when the war is
     over, you have a family to go back to and you can rebuild your
     store in the same place if it is bombed."
          "Do you have any family?" Schmidt looked up at Sergei sharply.
          "My father's parents die in the revolution.  He is their only
     child.  I am his only child.  My mother's family, they are in
     England, as I said.  I have never seen them."
          "And you don't want to live in Russia any more."
          "I cannot live in Russia any more," he said simply.  "Now that
     I am here, if I go back there, they will kill me.  But that is dif-
     ferent, I think, than what you ask.  I do not want to live there
     any more and so now because I make the choice to come out of the
     prisoner camp, I cannot live there any more.  Do you understand?"
          "Yes."  Schmidt's mouth tightened briefly, making his lips
     disappear.  He rose, then stooped to pick up the rest of the
     bottles.  "I have to get to headquarters.  Get ready for the meet-
     ing."   Then he put himself in front of Sergei and looked up at
     him.  "You are right.  This war is shit.  It's all shit, all the
     killing, all the destruction and for what?
          "I never thought of it before, but you're right, what would we
     do with Russia if we did conquer it?  It would eat us alive.  And
     if you tell anyone I said that..."
          Sergei saw anger, then fear in Schmidt's face.  He shook his
     head.  "I do not talk about such things.  It is dangerous."
          Schmidt nodded.  Then he turned and they walked up the bank
     and across the road together.



















                                 Chapter VI

          Hans' office was in the small town hall next to the hotel.  It
     had been the mayor's and so, though it wasn't really large enough,
     it was a comfortable room with windows that overlooked the valley.  
     It was a peaceful scene, one that usually helped his thought pro-
     cesses, but this afternoon he was waiting for his first official
     staff meeting and he was restless.
          He was anxious to see how well his staff officers were able to
     work together.  He was also very concerned about the state of the
     regiment.  According to the report left for him by his predecessor,
     everything was as it should be, but he had found that report an
     exercise in self congratulation that had nothing to do with
     reality.  Things were even worse than he was told they would be.
          Perhaps it was just as well that things were so bad. The work
     was good for him.  There was very little time to brood.  He was
     getting stronger and he looked better than he had since the preced-
     ing fall.  A little extra weight helped as did a tan from several
     days in an open car traveling the area his battalion covered as he
     got to know the units and the men under his command.
          He was pleased with the way Schmidt was working to get the
     chaos in the office straightened out, but he knew it would be a
     slow process.  The files were a mess.
          Ulrich Wagner and Schuster were working just as hard, looking
     into the existing situation in their own regiments and dividing up
     the rest with Schmidt and the battalion intelligence officer, a
     German aristocrat, Captain Erich von Feber, the one officer who had
     been with the battalion when Hans had arrived whom he had kept on.  
     Hans had had his doubts about keeping even von Feber, but Ulrich
     Wagner had vouched for him.  "He's a good man," Ulrich had said.
     "Smart, capable. He was transferred from commanding a Panzer unit
     to intelligence only because of that leg."  But Hans sensed he was
     also angry because of that leg.  A permanently stiff knee not only
     meant the end of an active command, but it also meant that von
     Feber would never again compete for the German Olympic Equestrian
     team as he had in 1936.  Horses were his first love, but armor ran
     a strong second.  "As for his reputation for being difficult..."
     Ulrich had shrugged.  "It's just that he has no patience with stu-
     pidity." He laughed. "You and I both know there's enough stupidity
     in the Wehrmacht to keep him in permanent difficulty." Then he
     lifted his handless left forearm.  "He saved my life.  Saved the
     whole platoon.  Disobeyed orders to do it which is why he didn't
     get the promotion and the medal he deserved.  Keep him.  You won't
     be sorry.  Especially because I know he's with us against Hitler,
     and has been for a long time."
          So von Feber had stayed.
          In addition to getting to know his own command and coordinat-
     ing the efforts of his officers, Hans was getting to know the divi-
     sional command.  He found his commanding officer adequate, no bet-
     ter than that, unfortunately, but certainly no worse.
          Straighten out the mess, Karl had told him.  The divisional
     commander, General Kruger, had said the same thing, but for very
     different reasons.  "That battalion reflects badly on us all," he
     had said.  What he really meant was that it reflected badly on him.  
     Hans could only wonder why he hadn't done something about it him-
     self long ago.
          There were voices in the outer office and he was pleased to
     hear that they seemed to be in easy conversation.    He was even
     more pleased when there was a spate of laughter.
          Schmidt appeared in the doorway. "Sir, everyone is here."
     "Good."  Hans leaned back in the chair.  "Bring them in."
          Ulrich Wagner came in first.  He was lean, trim, 5'10", with
     red hair and a pleasantly homely freckled face.  He greeted Hans
     and sat down in a wooden arm chair.
          Von Feber, an elegant, almost effete looking man with black
     hair and eyes to match, simply nodded and took the other arm chair.  
     Schuster was short and stocky, with powerful shoulders and an
     impressive thatch of curly blonde hair. He smiled, then haunched
     himself onto a heavy table by the back wall.
          Schuster shut the door, then half sat on the radiator under
     the windows.
          After a week of hard investigation, they had come to give Hans
     a situation report on the battalion.
          "What have you found?" he asked when they were all settled.
          "That this unit, this far-flung outpost of the Third Reich
     which stands poised on the rim of the continent, facing the Saxon
     hoards - Anglo variety - is totally unable to defend anything,
     including itself."   Ulrich rolled his eyes in exasperation.
          "A large hole in the front line of the defense of Germany's
     rear?" Hans laughed back at him.
          "Exactly."  Ulrich said.
          "The ass hole in that rear," von Feber said as he flipped a
     sheaf of papers onto the desk.
          Hans looked at the thickness of the pile with dismay.  "Really
     that bad?"
          "Worse," said Ulrich.  "This regiment is in terrible shape,
     right down to simple physical conditioning."
          "Suggestions?"
          Ulrich's forefinger indicated Schuster, something that gave
     Hans real satisfaction.  As different as the two of them were -
     Ulrich Wagner the witty, urbane well-educated Berliner and Schuster
     the laconic, pragmatic northern farm boy - they were going to man-
     age with each other, perhaps do even better than that.
          Schuster picked up the sheaf of papers from the desk and
     referred to them and to each of the other three men as he went
     along.  It soon became clear that they were all working well
     together, each deferring to the strengths of the others and con-
     tributing in his own way.  And Schuster seemed to enjoy taking
     hold.  It was obvious that he was going to be the regimental offi-
     cer Hans thought he would be.
          "Just the beginnings of a program," Ulrich had said, but it
     was far more than that.  They had accomplished a great deal in
     eight days, not only outlining the problems they had discovered -
     which were legion - but making excellent suggestions for dealing
     with each of them:  training programs; replacements and equipment
     needed; even a few personnel changes.  And they were all ready to
     get on with it, even enthused about doing it.  "It's all going to
     need your support," Schuster concluded, "and a whole stack of writ-
     ten orders."
          "You'll have both."  Their satisfaction was contagious.
     Despite the magnitude of what had to be done, Hans found that he
     felt better than he had for a long time.
          "The main problem, as the four of you see it," Hans said after
     they'd wound down, "is the state of readiness in general, both per-
     sonnel and equipment."
          "And the field repair unit in particular."  Von Feber said.  
     "A quarter of Wagner's tanks are over there and another quarter
     should be, along with about a third of Schuster's. And at least
     half of them are obsolete or so worn out that they might not be
     worth the effort.  But no one can tell us whether or not they are
     except that unit and they're not talking.  It's ridiculous.
          "When I went over there, I ran into with a stone wall.  Their
     paper work is in chaos, and, as I said, no one was talking.  The
     captain in command is an idiot.  It's the sergeant-major who runs
     the unit.  So we elected our own ex-sergeant-major"  - He gestured
     toward Schmidt. - "to go over there and find out what's
          really going on."   He laughed.  It was a happy sound.  "They
     didn't stand a chance."
          Hans was very pleased.  It was Schmidt's relationship to the
     rest of them that had worried him the most.
          Schmidt blushed.  He opened his mouth, then he shut it and
     cleared his throat.  When he opened it again, a spate of words
     tumbled out.  "There's no organization over there!  And the backlog
     ..."  He lifted his hands in exasperation. "Things take weeks that
     should take days.  It's not the enlisted men. They're all right, or
     they would be if the officers and NCOs in charge were anything but
     worthless self-seeking bastards who are more interested in what has
     to be the large-scale black market operation they're running than
     they are in repairing anything for the Wehrmacht.  They use the
     trucks they do repair to make their collections." And so it went, a
     bit too long as it always was with Schmidt but the way he had
     worked it out was remarkable.  If he'd missed anything, it wasn't
     much.
          Hans squeezed his eyes shut and massaged the bridge of his
     nose between his thumb and forefinger as he considered what he'd
     heard.   "It's beyond me how any commanding officer could let a
     situation like this develop."
          "Pay-offs."  Schmidt said. "The previous regimental commander
     included.  It's the only way they could have gotten away with so
     much for so long."
          Hans nodded wearily.  "All this with an invasion force build-
     ing up across the Channel."
          "The problem is - if you consider it a problem, -"  Ulrich
     said, "there's no fighting here. Most of the men including all of
     us, have been rotated in from the eastern front.  It's a place to
     rest and recuperate before going east again.  They're eating well
     and getting plenty of sleep despite the bombing raids, and most of
     the time it's in a bed.  In this war, being assigned to France is
     like dying and going to heaven." He stirred restlessly in his
     chair.  "And so they worry that if they get too fit, the powers-
     that-be will pluck the regiment out of this Garden of Eden and ship
     it east.  Who can blame them?"
          They all avoided looking at each other.
          "In ordinary circumstances they'd be right," Hans looked at
     Ulrich hard, in warning.  Despite Ulrich's assurances, he wasn't
     sure what von Feber knew about the plot, but he did know that
     Schuster and Schmidt knew nothing about it and he intended to keep
     it that way.  "But our particular assignment is to get this unit
     ready so that if the invasion comes here, this part of the coast
     will be properly defended.  Even when we're ready, we're to be left
     here.
          "So all we have to be concerned about is getting the battalion
     in shape. To be sure we're making a good start, there will be full
     battalion maneuvers in two weeks."  He smiled.  "That should stir
     things up."
          "Amen."  Ulrich Wagner grinned.
          Schuster rolled his eyes.
          "And the bottle-neck in field repair?"  asked Schmidt anx-
     iously.
          "Dealing with the field repair unit will be sheer pleasure,"
     Hans said grimly as he picked up the phone.


          Sergeant-major Klaus Kriebel leaned his wooden chair back
     against the wall, rested one jack-booted heel on Captain Manfred
     Nammacher's desk and hooked the other over the front rung of the
     chair.  He was a large man, coarse-featured, powerfully built and,
     at 36, beginning to run to fat because a beer bottle was semi-
     permanently attached to his left hand.
          "Well?" he asked as his commanding officer came through the
     doorway.
          "Sit up," Captain Nammacher snapped.
          "Yes, sir," Sergeant-major Kriebel said sarcastically.  His
     feet came down and the front legs of the chair hit the floor with a
     thud.  "It was that sort of interview, was it?"
          The captain took off his gloves and slapped them onto the sil-
     ver tray which sat at the exact center of a small square inlaid-
     wood table by the door, then hung his cap on one of two decorative
     hooks set in the wall over it on either side of a narrow mirror
     framed in curly maple.  The fact that Nammacher did not, for once,
     check his  appearance in that mirror did much to confirm the ser-
     geant-major's  suspicions.
          Captain Nammacher spoke only after he sat down and squared
     everything on the top of his desk with the corners. Even then he
     did not look at the sergeant.  "There are to be full battalion
     maneuvers in two weeks.  Every tank presently in for repairs is to
     be finished within one week - sooner, if possible - and for every
     one that isn't done by then, there is to be a written report
     detailing why it hasn't been finished.  Furthermore, you are
     required to make a list of any spare parts which are currently in
     short supply, especially those likely to hold up necessary repairs,
     and you are to give said list to Colonel Richter personally, at
     1100 hours tomorrow."
          Kriebel laughed in disbelief.  "You can't be serious!  What
     does he think he can do with a list like that?  Berlin will use it
     for toilet paper." He gave a derisive snort as he reached down for
     the beer bottle that was sitting beside him on the floor.  When he
     realized it was empty, he simply let it drop.  It rolled under the
     desk.
          "Pick that up."
          The order was obeyed with the maximum insolence possible.
          "And from now on, leave the beer outside."  Nammacher sniffed
     the air disdainfully.  "It smells up the office.  And to answer
     your question, though it wasn't the colonel who told me, Berlin
     will not use it for toilet paper.  I happen to know that his uncle
     is the Quartermaster General of the Wehrmacht, and the colonel's
          new first battalion commander, Major Wagner..."
          "The one-armed wonder," Kriebel said sourly.
          Nammacher looked at him sharply.  "Major Wagner gave up a job
     as one of that colonel general's aides to come here."
          "More the fool he!"
          "Shut up, Kriebel," Nammacher said in exasperation. "I've had
     enough for one day."
          "And it's not even noon." Then Kriebel gave a placatory wave
     of the hand.  "What you're telling me is that between the two of
     them, they can get just about anything we want."
          "Yes."
          "This new colonel is crazy if he thinks that." Kriebel said.  
     "Even with all the new spare parts in Germany, we can't get all
     those tanks finished in a week.  More like three weeks and that's
     only if we work at it full time."
          "We can finish what's in now in one week, at least those that
     are worth repairing,"  Nammacher said. "I know we can.  You know we
     can.  But only if we work on tanks and nothing else, which is pre-
     cisely what's going to happen."
          "Are you forgetting the Paris run two days from now?"  Kriebel
     asked angrily.  "All we need is two men and one truck, that is
     after we've made tomorrow's pick-ups.  And I have the perfect truck
     for that run.  It came in this morning.  Just the right size.  Bro-
     ken axle.  It'll be ready to go by tomorrow night."
          "No.  No pick-ups, no Paris, no nothing.  Just tanks."
          "Richter's got you peeing in your pants.  That's crazy.  What
     can he do? We have the Gestapo in our pocket.  And given what we
     pay them, they're going to stay right there."
          "That was true. No more.  There are two new Gestapo men in
     town, Brigadier Leubner, who's in temporarily from Berlin, and a
     Major Pfister who has already taken over here.  Our old friend is
     out. I went over there after I saw Richter, to feel out the situa-
     tion.  They told me they wouldn't help, that they couldn't possibly
     interfere with the proper running of a Wehrmacht unit.  Not that
     they don't want our largesse."  His face reddened slightly.  "They
     do."
          Kriebel leaned forward and pointed an accusing finger at Nam-
     macher.  "You did get the passes.  We can't move anything without
     passes."
          "Yes, I have passes," said Nammacher.  "Those will continue.  
     At least for the time being."  He squared up a small stack of
     papers that were already square.  "But he wants a quid quo pro.  He
     said that undoubtedly we come up with a great deal of information
     about a great many people in our travels and that the Gestapo would
     find that information useful.  He went on to say that we would have
     to find our own way around Colonel Richter.  He was very specific
     about that.  But then he went back to the information we can find,
     that it might be useful to us as well, if we used it properly."
          "He wants information about Richter," Kriebel said in sur-
     prise.  "Now why do you suppose he wants that?  And why does he
     need it?  He should be able to get anything he wants from Richter's
     file."
          "What he wants may not be in Richter's file.  There's a great
     deal that's not in your file for instance."
          "Or yours," Kriebel said.
          "Just find something."  Nammacher wiped his forehead with his
     handkerchief.  "Because until you do, we're going to have to run
     this unit the way the colonel wants it run, without anything on the
     side.  The black market operation was possible only because Colonel
     Pflamm turned a blind eye.  But Richter ... " There was a vigorous
     negative shake of his head.  "He's not going to put up with it."
     "If he finds out about it."
          "He's the sort of man who is going to find out everything, and
     before too long, and when he does he's going to do something about
     it."
          "Just what could he do if he did find out?"
          "Ship us east before any of your precious Paris connections
     knew what happened to us.  Colonel Richter made it abundantly
          clear that my command was a disgrace and that if you and I
     don't do something about it at once, we'll be gone and he'll find
     someone who both can and will.  The rumors were right.  He was sent
     here to straighten things out and that's exactly what he intends to
     do."
          "More's the pity."
          "So you will forget about Paris," Nammacher said with an impe-
     riousness Kriebel had never heard before, "and concentrate on fix-
     ing the tanks and every other vehicle we have in here and within
     the week.  And when that's done, they're going to send in more and
     we'll have another week to deal with those."
          "I knew that Captain Schmidt was going to be trouble," Kriebel
     fumed. "I checked on him after he was here.  He was the sergeant-
     major for Richter's unit in Russia.  Won the Iron Cross First Class
          before he made lieutenant."  He stared at nothing, his face
     was grim.  "But he doesn't have eyes in the back of his head.  Even
     without making collections tomorrow, there is enough for another
     run to Paris.  That means two men for 24 hours.  No lay over in
     Paris for them this time.  Too bad, but we all have to make our war
     time sacrifices."
          He rose.  "You want tanks done?  They'll be done.  And I'll be
     glad to order every part there is, especially anything that will
     sell."  His smile was nasty.  "If he really does have a pipeline to
     Berlin, we might as well tap into it ourselves."
          Nammacher was leaning forward with a look of anguish on his
     face.
          "Meantime, I will look around.  I have a few connections of my
     own.  They may not be as exalted as the colonel's, but they can be
     just as useful.  If I use them to look deep enough, what I find out
     just might give us the leverage we need, both with the colonel and
     the Gestapo.

          One of Kriebel's most useful connections was a Frenchman named
     Guy Ardiet who owned what was probably the most elegant cafe in
     Caen.  He had worked hard to make it that way.  He also worked hard
     to make himself look as if he owned such a place.  For the most
     part, he succeeded.  He was 5'6" tall and elegantly slim.  Even in
     these austere times, his clothes were tailored for him from superb
     fabrics, and his shoes were custom made from the finest of leath-
     ers.  Unfortunately he could do nothing about his face. He had
     close set black eyes, a broken beak of a nose, a jutting chin and a
     long scar down his left cheek all of which made him look like a
     thug on the Marseilles waterfront. He added to this effect by
     sweeping his black hair straight back and keeping it there with a
     heavy, scentless hair oil.
          He was sitting at a table in the bar with his account books
     spread open on the table in front of him, sipping a glass of wine
     when he heard the door open and the sound of a heavy man coming
     across the floor.
          The bent wood chairs were still upside down on the tables,
     obstructing his view, but whoever it was, he was not happy about
     the interruption.  Not only did he need to get the books done, but
     Gaston had just finished mopping the floor and footprints meant
     that he would probably have to do at least some of it again.
          When he saw who it was, he was even more annoyed.  "Kriebel,"
     he said evenly.
          "Monsieur Ardiet," Kriebel replied sarcastically as he took a
     chair down from the next table.  He swung it around with the back
     toward Guy and straddled it.  "How about some calvados.  And don't
     put it in one of those pissy-assed little glasses."
          Guy rose slowly, went behind the bar and took down a brandy
     snifter which he filled half full.  He held it up in inquiry.
          "That will do," Kriebel said, "for a start."
          "What's so bad that you need a drink this size at 9:30 in the
     morning?" he asked in his heavily accented German as he handed
     Kriebel the snifter.
          Kriebel took a long swallow then wiped his mouth with the back
     of his hand.  "A new commanding officer, Colonel Johann Richter.  I
     want you to look into him for me."
          "Why should I do that?"
          "Because, fool, he means as much to your income as he does to
     mine and it looks as if he's going to interfere with us."
          "And you want to know something that will keep him from inter-
     fering."
          "Don't you?"
          "No as much as you do," Guy said.  "If he closes down your
     part of the operation, you are closed down.  I'm French.  I could
     find someone else."
          "With access to enough trucks and gasoline?  And passes.  
     Don't forget the passes."  Kriebel tried to laugh.
          Guy lifted a placating hand.  He had a very good sense of when
     enough was enough with Kriebel.  "You're right, of course.  I'll
     see what I can do."
          As Kriebel left through the front door, Guy heard someone come
     in the side door.  He let out a hiss of exasperation.  "Who is it?"
          There was no reply.
          He got up, then sat down again at the sight of the woman who
     was walking toward him.  "Madeleine," he said with all the impas-
     sivity he could manage. It had been a long time since he'd seen
     her, four years at least, but all she'd done was improve. She was a
     little fuller across the hips but it became her.  And those breasts
     spoke to a man.  He thought, and not for the first time, that it
     was too bad she was his cousin.  "Guy," she replied soberly.
          "Mother said you'd be coming in."
          "Yes," she said absently as she looked around.
          "What do you think of the place?"
          "It must be just what you've always wanted it to be. But I
     wonder how you managed to do it, given the occupation."
          "As always, direct and to the point."  He reached over and
     turned Kriebel's chair around for her.
          People used to say that it was too bad Guy and Madeleine
     hadn't become a dance team.   They moved well, both separately and
     together, and were almost exactly the same height.  But neither of
     them had the necessary communal temperament, so they'd never even
     tried.
          "Sit down, Madeleine." Then he raised his voice.  "Gaston!
     Bring some coffee for your sister and me."
          A boy's face appeared the swinging door to the kitchen.
          "Coffee, Gaston," he repeated.  "For two."  The boy grinned at
     his sister, gave a little wave and disappeared.
          Madeleine stared after him in surprise.   "You're a miracle
     worker!  Whenever I ask him to do something, all I get is a sullen
     grunt."
          "He likes what he does for me."
          "And what does he do for you?"
          "Certainly not what you could do for me."
          "What do you have in mind?"
          "You want a job?  Waiting table, perhaps?"  He was laughing at
     her.  "No.  You couldn't do that.  Only men do that.  And the
     kitchen is well staffed.  I thought you were a singer."  She was
          one of the best chanteuses in Paris and he could only wonder
     why she was back in Caen looking for a job.
          "I am a singer," she said quietly.  "And you have every reason
     to know just how good I am."
          "Yes." There was anger in his voice.  "I do know how good you
     are.  You got your start here, and you were filling the club, more
     than filling the club, by the time you left.  You do remember leav-
     ing here, don't you Madeleine?"
          "Yes, I remember."
          He nodded.  "You and I were both having a very profitable time
     until you simply got up and walked out one day, and with a big pri-
     vate party coming in that night, mainly to see you.  I had to get
     Chantel." He grimaced. "They weren't happy.  What assurance do I
     have that you wouldn't do that again?"
          "Because I'm sick of Paris. I won't go back.  Not as long as
     the Germans are there."
          "There are Germans here."
          "There are Germans everywhere." Her head came up and there was
          a flash of anger.
          He liked that. It was better than world-weariness by far.  
     "Just not as many of them here?"
          "Certainly not as many colonels and generals.  Her voice was
     tight.  "And I'd be working where I have a cousin to protect me."
          Guy had always protected her when she was a child.  The whole
          family had, because Madeleine had become a motherless orphan
     at a very young age.  And he would give her a job now.  Not because
     both his mother and her father would have his head if he didn't -
     and they would - but because she was so good.  She'd make him a
     fortune, provided she didn't insist he give her too much of it.  In
     that, she surprised him. Her demands were high, but only moderately
     so.  He would have paid her more, if he'd had to.
          The coffee came and went and for once, Gaston didn't ask any
     questions.
          As they drank it, he wondered again what had brought her back
     from Paris.  Between her singing and the way she attracted men,
     Paris should have been the perfect place for her.  With all that
     smoky black hair, a pout to her lower lip and that remarkable fig-
     ure, men had always found her irresistible.  He wondered how old
     she was and settled on 24, then decided that that was just the
     right age.  There was just enough mileage to make her interesting
     but not enough to make her shop worn.  He decided all over again
     that she would be a gold mine just as she must have been to the
     bistro owner in Paris where she had been thinking.  He heard the
     Germans were coming in in droves.  Suddenly his head came up and he
     was smiling.
          "What do you want, Guy," she asked cautiously.  "You never
     look at me like that unless you want something."
          He laughed. He'd forgotten how bright and perceptive she was.  
     "There is something you can do for me.  Since you got so used to
     dealing with those colonels and generals in Paris, you can culti-
     vate a colonel, a new man who's stationed near here.  He interests
     me."
          "No."
          "I just want you to get to know him."
          "You just want me to get to know him," she repeated back at
     him. There was a slight curl to the upper lip that made her even
     more desirable.
          "I want you to get to know him," he said again with a patience
     he was far from feeling.  "To get to know all about him."
          "To bed him?"  It was only half a question.
          He shrugged. It was what he wanted of course, but he knew bet-
     ter than to say so.
          She shook her head and started to rise.  "I'm not bedding any-
     one.  Especially not a German."
          He reached over and his hand tightened around her wrist.  
     "It's your choice about the bed.  I meant what I said, all I want
     you to do is to get to know him.  A few drinks..."
          "Is that a condition of employment?"
          He gave a slow negative shake of the head.
          "Good," she said.  "I'll take the job but not the German. Now
     let go of me."
          His face hardened as did the hand around her wrist, but then
     he released her abruptly.
          "Don't want to bruise the merchandise?"
          "Not the slightest mark."   He told himself that she would
     come around, that he'd see to it.  But with his mother and her
     father breathing down the back of his neck, he'd have to be care-
     ful.  "When can you start?"
          "In a few days, if the piano player's good enough."
          "Charles du Bois."  He was watching her closely.
          "He's very good."
          He heard the sadness in her voice.
          "Since it's Charles..." She sighed.  "Two days?  We won't need
     much rehearsal. It will be as if we never stopped."
          "Just the singing part of it, I trust," he said warily.  "He
     is still married, no thanks to you.  So tread carefully, please.  
     His wife won't be happy to hear you're back and he's far too good
     to lose."
          She shook her head. "I want no man in my life, especially
     Charles.  There was a time ...  But I've done him too much harm to
     want to do him any more."
          There was a commotion in the kitchen and Gaston's head
     appeared.  "There's a delivery."
          Guy nodded then looked back at Madeleine as he rose.  "I have
     to go."
          "Fine."
          "Call Charles about rehearsal.  The store downstairs still
     takes calls for him so the number's the same."
LAYOUT 000
:  B 
  
*U   <
_         \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
