
                                  Chapter III

          Captain Michael Paul Cosgrove Compton, DSO, DSC, RN (Ret) was
     a tall, lean, distinguished looking man with a full head of graying
     black hair.  He had impeccable taste and his office reflected that.  
     As section chief for MI6 in charge of gathering intelligence from
     all over Europe and he had an office in Whitehall that suited that
     position.  It also suited him personally.  Though his years in the
     cramped quarters of a Royal Navy ship were long over, he still
     relished the spaciousness of this room, especially the high ceil-
     ing, and he had made that space both elegant and comfortable.
          The two outside walls were paneled, the other two were covered
     floor ceiling with bookcases filled almost to overflowing with
     books, almanacs, atlases and file boxes.  The tall narrow windows
     were decorated with long pull-back drapes of heavy gun-metal blue
     damask.  Two large antique Persian rugs hid most of the hardwood
     floor and a pair of worn leather arm chairs faced him across a mas-
     sive neo-classic desk of great age.  He was fond of that desk.  It
     had been in his family for generations and he remembered seeing
     both his grandfather and his father use it.  Like those two men
     before him, he kept the surface clear, feeling that helped keep his
     mind focused on what he was doing.
          Even the one item in that office which was peculiarly neces-
     sary to the position he held was not government issue.  It was a
     blue porcelain-tiled stove, an antique which Michael Compton used
     not only to ward off the cold and damp of English winters but to
     burn papers and files best not kept.
          He felt he was dealing with such a document now.
          His chief aide, Emlyn Rhys, had brought it straight to him
     from the latest mail bag to arrive by air from Stockholm, knowing
     both that he would want to see it right away and that he would not
     want anyone else to see it.  The envelope bore Swedish stamps but
     the woman's name and the address on it were written in John
     Richter's bold polyglot script.  That particular name and Stockholm
     address
          had been given to John Richter and only John Richter just
     before he made his hair-raising "escape" back to Germany, an
     "escape" which had been engineered for him on Michael's orders by
     that self-same Emlyn Rhys.
          Michael had had no word from John since.  There was only the
     occasional Red Cross letter which got through to his mother.
          He opened the letter with great anticipation.

          Dear Michael,

              When you read this, I will be dead and, if I've been
          successful, you should know about it.  Even if they sup-
          press my name, the explosion itself will be too big to
          hide.
              I can't work for MI6 any longer.  Russia made a German
          of me in a way I would never have thought possible. Not a
          Nazi, a German.  I cannot serve two masters. How does the
          Bible put it?  If you try you will come to hate the one
          and cleave to the other?  Something like that. Fortunately
          I'm not at the point where I hate anyone except the people
          who got all of us into this war.  For that I blame the
          lily-livered Chamberlain and the moral exhaustion of the
          French almost as much as I blame the venal creatures here,
          because they could have stopped it.  You know that.  I
          know that.  And it could have been done as late as 1940.  
          I told you how and where, well before the invasion of
          France.
              But it's too late for recriminations, even if they
          served some purpose, which they don't.  Since Hitler
          wasn't stopped before, he must be stopped now.  I have the
          perfect opportunity to do that.  It is a blow I strike
          for Germany, not for Germany as it exists now, but for
          what Germany really is and what it will be again.  It also
          happens to be a blow for England, though that is not why
          I'm doing it.
              This war has to be stopped before the Russians overrun
          Germany and all of Europe.  They have the man-power and,
          thanks to you and the Americans, they also have the equip-
          ment. Germany can't hold them at bay forever, perhaps not
          even long enough for the western Allies to invade the con-
          tinent in enough force to stop all of Europe from being
          bolshevized.  My living cannot affect that one way or the
          other, but my death can.
              You know I came back here because Annaliese had died
          and I blamed myself for it.  I felt that if it weren't for
          me, she wouldn't have been in an English hospital giving
          birth to our son when that bomb fell.  But I see now that
          you were right, that it wasn't anyone's fault, even mine.  
          It was simply one of those terrible, senseless accidents
          of war.  The German bombs that killed her in England could
          just as easily have been British bombs killing her here.  
          But even if I had been able to see that then, I still
          don't think I could have sat out the war over there,
          safely doing some dreary intelligence job when I could be
          here doing something active to end the war.  But that
          wasn't to be.  No Abwehr, no appointment to the General
          Staff, one of which we'd hoped for and either of which I
          was well qualified for.  Whether they didn't trust me
          after my "escape" because of my relationship to you or
          because they needed a tank commander in Russia more than
          they needed a paper-pushing intelligence analyzer (even
          one with an intimate knowledge of England and the
          English), I couldn't say.  But the reason doesn't matter
          now. All that matters is that Russia is where I went and
          it was there that I finally saw what this war is in all
          its barbarity.  It has changed me irrevocably.
              Therefore I am resigning from MI6, as of this moment,
          though I shall consider myself bound by the Official
          Secrets Act as regards anything I saw or learned in that
          connection for as long as I live.
              My only regret is that I won't be able to see my son
          grow to manhood.  But if what I do is instrumental in end-
          ing this war, it may mean that he won't have to grow up to
          fight another.  So, more than for any single person, I'm
          doing this for him. I couldn't stop the bombs that killed
          his mother almost as he was being born but I can set off
          another that will stop that sort of death from continuing
          to rain on the children of both sides.  I love him.  I
          want the best for him. I especially want him to have a
          long, productive and peaceful life.   Make sure he knows
          that and also that when I ran, it was not from him.
              Please give this letter to Mother when the time is
          right.  I want her to be able to accept and understand
          what I have done.  I've never been good at showing her how
          I feel about her, really about showing emotion to anyone,
          except Annaliese.  British stiff upper lip?  Prussian sto-
          icism that Mother's American openness couldn't overcome?
          Whatever it is, I'm sorry for it now.  And though I
          rarely, if ever, have said it, I hope she knows what a
          wonderful mother she was and is to me and how much I love
          and respect her.  And James, too, as a brother, though
          he'd snort at hearing that.  I know that together you and
          Mother will take good care of Punch.  James and Annabelle,
          too. Smartest thing old James ever did was to marry her.  
              Be happy together, all of you, and love my son for me.
                                                   Love,
                                                    Hans


          For Michael, the name at the end said everything.  John
     Richter was no longer John.  He had become Hans, the diminutive of
     the German Johann, which was what his father and every German in
     his family had always called him.  But it was never what he called
     himself, until
     now.
          Michael Compton put down the letter from his godson-turned-
     stepson, John Michael Richter, and sat staring at nothing for a very
     long time.

         Ten days later he was at that same desk, trying to keep his mind
     on a very dull report he had to have in hand before a meeting that
     was only ninety minutes away.  He wasn't finding it easy to concen-
     trate.
         There hadn't been so much as a hint of an earth shattering explo-
     sion anywhere.  There was nothing in the German newspapers, nothing
     in their propaganda broadcasts, not a sign, not a whisper.  And there
     was nothing from Ultra either.
         Michael finally gave up on the report and sat back in his chair.  
     He found this far worse than waiting to go into battle because at
     least in battle there was the hope of victory.  With this, there was
     only the sureness of death - John's death - and the thought of that
     was beyond bearing.
         Michael hadn't told Anne because he didn't know what to tell her.  
     She knew he was keeping something from her and was upset. She'd
     asked, of course, with a coldness that was frightening, but all he'd
     said was that it was the pressure of work.
         That this was such a frantic puzzle to Michael Compton was ironic
     because not only was he supposed to have Germany, France, and all of
     occupied Europe at his fingertips, but he was one of very few men
     privy to the intelligence gathered by Ultra, the miracle that per-
     mitted the British, sporadically at least, to decode German military
     transmissions.  He knew that if something of that magnitude had hap-
     pened in Germany, it would not have been kept from Ultra, at least
     not for long.  They would need to move troops.
         He leaned his head back and shut his eyes.
         There was a discrete tap at the door.
         "Come!" he called wearily without moving.
         "I'm sorry to disturb you, sir."  It was his secretary.
          "Yes, Miss Cruickshank?" he asked, putting on the semblance of a
     smile.
         "I am sorry to disturb you, but Mr. Greerson said you wanted to
     see these as soon as they came."
         Michael glanced at the small stack of German periodicals and was
     just looking up to thank her when something caught his eye.  It took
     a great effort to keep his face set and simply say, "Thank you."
         His eyes were so hard on her that she reddened slightly, and
     stammered as she said, "The Ministry just called to say that the
     meeting scheduled for this afternoon has been delayed until 6 o'clock
     this evening and will you still be able to attend?"
         "Since I'm to be the main event, it was kind of them to ask." He
     regretted the words the minute they were out of his mouth because
     sarcasm always flustered her.
         For once he was surprised.  There was a small smile and the sug-
     gestion of a twinkle in her eye as she said, "Is that what you would
     like me to tell them, sir?"
         He smiled at the thought of what the reaction to that would be.
     "Just tell them I'll be there."
         "Very well, sir."
         As the door closed behind her, he reached for the top one, a copy
     of Signal, the German propaganda magazine.  Staring out at him from
     the cover was the face of John Richter.  The picture had been taken
     from below both to make him look more imposing and to emphasize the
     Knight's Cross which hung in the inverted V formed by his collar.  
     The silver and black cross was now topped with the silver of the
     Swords and Oak Leaves.
         The picture upset him.  John was far too thin, but he was also
     tougher looking, and older.  The last eighteen months had aged him.
         Colonel Johann Richter, the caption screamed at him from the
     lower right corner, Hero of Stalingrad.  Michael felt sick.  It was
     no wonder that John looked the way he did.  And if he had been given
     the Swords and Oak Leaves, he had done something monumental, some-
     thing terrible and monumental.
         He opened the magazine and riffled through the pages before stu-
     dying the article at length.  When he finally looked up, his face was
     bleak.

         "Michael."  Anne Compton looked across at her husband.  Her eyes
     were stricken.  "He looks awful."
         They were sitting in the morning room of their Eaton Square house
     where the luxury of a small coal fire was waging a losing battle
     against the late February chill.
         Michael nodded in silent agreement.
         "So thin," she said wistfully.
         "Considering where he's been, I'm surprised he looks as well as
     he does."
         "Yes." Her voice firmed.  "We're lucky he's still alive."  Then
     she opened the magazine to the place he'd marked with a paper clip
     and studied the pictures and read the article in silence.
         Michael leaned his head against the back of the chair.  His hand
     was loose around the glass on the arm rest.  He knew what she was
     seeing, what she was reading.  The pictures and the text had printed
     themselves onto his memory.  They explained everything.  John in the
     Chancellery with Adolf Hitler, head bent forward as the Fuehrer put
     the ribbon over his head while Goering, Himmler and Goebbels stood in
     the background.  All those men were together in one room to honor the
     symbolic Hero of Stalingrad.  An explosion there, at that moment,
     might well have ended the war.  He was certain that that John had
     intended to blow himself up and take the whole lot with him.
         Michael was in parts appalled, sad, angry and very proud.  But
     over it all was the profound and utterly selfish relief that he had
     failed.
         He shifted in the chair, restless suddenly, and his hand automat-
     ically tightened around his glass.  He lifted it and took a long
     drink.
         Finally she closed the magazine. "What else is there, Michael?"
     He heard the combination of resignation and anxiety in her voice.  
     "There's more. Something about John that you're not telling me."
     He saw tears in her eyes that didn't fall.  "He really is all right,
     isn't he?"
         He nodded slowly, then pulled the letter out of his jacket pocket
     and leaned forward to hand it to her.
         The color drained from her face as she read it, and when she was
     finished, she sat looking down at the cover of the magazine for a
     long time.  "He failed, didn't he."  The words were very small.
         "Yes."
         "Thank God."  She burst into tears.
LAYOUT 000
:ê  B 
  
*®U   <
_        ˙ \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
       B
  
       <
  ?   A   ˙ -------\----#-----------------
