       Dear Maggie,
            I suppose it's silly to write you a letter that you
       will never read, but it's the only way I have left to talk
       to you.  We talked so much over the past 24 years, about
       anything and everything and now you aren't here to talk to
       any more.  I miss that desperately because there is almost
       no one else I trust enough to talk to this way. That's a
       real problem for me and I'm going to have to do something
       about it.  It's hard.  The way I was raised ...  "You are
       the child of a minister," my mother told me over and over.
       "You are not to repeat what you hear about anyone spoken
       of in this house.  You are not to discuss problems in this
       house outside of it ..."  Now I haven't got the exact
       words for the last part.  The import of it was that I
       could not discuss problems that occured in the house
       because my father's parishoners were not to know that he
       had feet of clay.  Also, because I was Christian, I was on
       this earth to serve others.  Not to be served.  Therefore
       I was to become a good listener and listen to other
       people's problems, but never never was I to bother them
       with my own.  Can you imagine how that distanced me from
       other people? Can you imagine how much trouble that caused
       in my marriage?  How out of proportion things got, espe-
       cially early on, simply because I couldn't talk about any
       of it? I remember going to my next door neighbor. - It was
       before I knew you. We had been married about 6 months.
       Don was in grad school, getting his PhD and we were living
       in graduate housing.  -   She was someone I was just get-
       ting to know but I just had to say it out loud to someone.
       She was a minister's daughter, too, so I figured she knew
       "the rules" and that was a help.  Evenso, I remember that
       I was actually a sweating as I said to her, "He absolutely
       will not take out the garbage, or do much of anything to
       clean up after himself." She laughed and said, "Jeff won't
       either and isn't it a pain." What a relief.  I wasn't a
       pariah for saying so.  And I wasn't alone.  I just wish
       that it hadn't taken me another 15 years, when I got to
       know you, to learn that I could talk about things of real
       substance in my life.
            For some reason, I have been thinking about the first
       time I heard the world was coming to an end.  It's beem
       coming back at the oddest times for the past few days.
       You and I rarely talked about how we grew up, so I wonder
       where you were that day in the spring of 1945? You and I
       were both 9 years old, soon to be ten.  The war in Europe
       was almost over.  Everyone knew it wouldn't be long.  Then
       we would concentrate on Japan and defeat her as well, but
       even I knew it wouldn't be easy.  The Japanese would fight
       to the death, especially when their homeland was invaded.
       As much as I had come to hate what the Japanese were then,
       I couldn't blame them for that.  Americans would do that,
       too.  But any nation that sent their young men on suicide
       flights against the navy, and any nation whose young men
       would willingly go on those suicide flights ...  That was
       scary.  But then, no one had yet heard of the atom bomb.
             As I said, it was a warm day, that wonderful blamy
       warmth that only spring can bring.  The leaves were still
       young and there was mist in the air.  Frank and his
       brother Henny (the youngest 2 Ehrenfeldts) and I were sit-
       ting on their front steps just waiting for the world to
       end.  They were worn wooden steps that matched their worn
       wooden porch.  When you have six children in a house that
       you're renting with a landlady who never wants to fix any-
       thing, everything is bound to be worn.  Akron was booming
       in those days with all the rubber factories running full
       blast 24 hours a day.  You could smell the curing rubber
       on hot summer nights when the wind was right and in the
       winter the snow would get sooty.
            Mr. Ehrenfeldt would come home from whatever shift he
       was working and sit in an old wooden rocking chair on that
       porch, reading the paper.  When he was there, we knew not
       to bother him so we'd sit on our front porch, which was
       across the street.   I suppose we were apprehensive about
       how the end would come, but I don't really remember that.
       I just remember being curious.  Of course, in the end
       nothing happened.  We all just went home and had dinner.
       I told my father about it.  He laughed.
            Their older brother Max was with us on the steps for
       a while, but probably nor for long. Max was 17 and disgusted
       because when he turned 16, the Ehrenfeldts wouldn't sign for
       him to go into the Army Air Force.  He wanted to be a
       fighter pilot so he could kill German fighter pilots.  A
       German fighter pilot had killed his oldest brother Richie,
       who had been a tail gunner in a B-17.  Richie was 19 when
       he died.  That left only five Ehrenfeldt children and made
       Max the oldest son.  When he was 19 Max did go to West
       Point.  We were all very proud of him.
            It's sad that I have so little memory of Richie.  We
       moved to that house in the spring of 1942 and he was
       already gone.  He enlisted the day after Pearl Harbor,
       went in early in January and came home on leave in late
       March.  He had only a few days left on his leave the day
       we moved in. He was tall, lean, saturnine looking and very
       impressive in his uniform.  It's hard to know whether it's
       the actual Richie I remember or the picture of him taken
       in front of the house with his father.  He went off and he
       never came home.  The bomber blew up in the air.  He was
       vaporized.
       	I can't

       	It's later.  I started to cry so hard I couldn't see.
       Damn plane with you on it, crashing full bore into a moun-
       tain.  When your sister told me, it was as if she had
       taken a huge swing with a baseball bat and hit me in the
       stomach.  I couldn't talk.  I could barely breathe.  I
       couldn't even feel very much for days.
            They brought back what they could be sure was you in
       a small box and cremated it.
            I didn't get to see you, to say goodbye, to make sure
       it was you who was in that urn they put into your grave.
       I wanted there to be some mistake, to have an excuse not
       to believe, but I had to.  Mark was there.  He looked
       devastated as did your sons.  Your mother.  Your sister
       and her husband and three of their four children.  They
       were all there, along with some cousins I had never met.
       Except for Don and me and our three, it was just family at
       the graveside ceremony.  I was touched to be asked.  Of
       course I went.  I couldn't not go.  But I hated it.
       Everyone was there but you.  You were dead.  It was a
       beautiful day and you were still dead.  Later, there was a
       superb memorial service.  They asked me to read scripture.
       I read it.  Everyone said how well I did it and how had I
       managed?  They didn't know I was running on auto pilot.
       Because you were even more dead.
            Two days later, it was as if the world fell in.
       Finally I could cry.   Don was kindness itself when I
       first heard you had died.  For two days.  Now, ten days
       later, he's on one of his travel spurts.  He'll be gone
       for most of the next two weeks.  It's just as well.  Our
       younger two are home, of course, and they are a wonderful
       distraction.  Dear souls, both of them.  ___________ pats
       my back from time to time.  He doesn't know what to say to
       me but that's enough.  _______ is in the terrible teens at
       the moment, but she's being very careful about her curfew
       and helps around the house without being asked.  Even
       keeps her room clean.  Bless them both.
            I'm not sleeping well but when I wake in the morning,
       everything seems fine. Then, slam, the rerealization comes
       and it's as if I'm carrying a heavy load through a dark
       cloud.   I had a dream last night.  The first one in
       a long time.















            tail gunner in a B-17.  Richie was 19 when he died.
       That left only five Ehrenfeldt children and made Max the
       oldest son.  When he was 19, Max went West Point.  We were
       all very proud of him.








            Damn it, Maggie, why aren't you here?  We were going
       to have adjoining rooms in "the home" when we got to dod-
       dering old age so we could talk and laugh and give the
       nurses a bad time.
            Don travels as much as ever.  It's a killing schedule
       at times and I wonder how he stands it, but he seems to
       thrive.  It used to be painful to have him gone so much
       but now ...  Husbands do generate a lot of work and I find
       I like not having to account for my time to anyone but
       myself.  I had to wait until I was almost over 40 to
       understand the value of solitude, but you always seemed to




       Dear Maggie,
            The last letter I wrote you really got me thinking
       about growing up in Akron and all that that entailed.
       It's odd the things that have come back.  Remember I wrote
       about the soot on the snow, because of all the rubber fac-
       tories? One of the rituals of life  - every morning, my
       mother would give me a clean handkerchief - that was, of
       course, before Kleenex - and I was expected to put it over
       my index finger and play chimney sweep in my nose, on both
       nides.  It always made two rough black circles on the
       handkerchief.  We sometimes had other ministers staying at
       the house when they came through town.  One of my two
       favorites was, oddly enough, a handsome black haired man
       from Minnesota.  I think part of his charm was that he
       always talked to me as if I were a real person and someone
       worth talking to.  The first time he came - I was 7 - I
       solemnly demonstrated the morning nose ritual and showed
       him the results.  My mother was appalled, but he just
       shook his head, pulled out his own handkerchief, did the
       same thing and showed me his results which were, of
       course, far more impressive than mine since his nose was a
       lot bigger.  He then said, just as solemnly, that he
       thought doing that was a very good idea and he'd be sure
       to do it every morning.  Every time, after that first
       visit, whenever he came, he would bring me a Laura Ingalls
       Wilder book.  - I think they must have been just coming
       out then. - He came often enough so that I got all but the
       last book which my parents got me for Christmas.  I was
       really sorry that by the time Don and I moved to Minnesota
       he had retired and moved to Arizona.  It wasn't long after
       that that I saw his obituary in the paper.  I wish I had
       made the effort to get hold of his address so I could have
       written his family, to tell them how fond I was of him.
            I know all children have a special spot for people
       who made them feel appreciated, but maybe I did more than
       most because I didn't seem to be appreciated by very many
       adults, especially women.  That certainly wasn't the only
       time I appalled my mother.  You know.  We talked about it
       and the fact that I wasn't the kind of daughter she envi-
       sioned and how she made that abundantly clear from time to
       time.  You know how it was in the late 40s and through
       much of the 50s.   Girls were supposed to be decorative,
       obedient and quiet, and to get boys to talk about them-
       selves, so they could be popular.  I was bright, insati-
       ably curious about everything, physically tall and strong
       for my age and very well coordinated.  I didn't want to
       just cheer boys on at athletic events.  I wanted to be
       right in there with them.  I also understood Max's disap-
       pointment about not being able to go to the war all too
       well.  Even before I was aware that that was what his
       brother was doing, I wanted to be a tail gunner in a B-17.
       I knew I was too young, and I was even marginally aware
       that because I was female that might not be possible.  But
       I wasn't really absolutely sure that I couldn't because my
       father always told me that I could do anything in this
       life if I worked hard enough.  After Max's brother died, I
       wanted to do it even more, to kill whomever had killed
       Richie and made them all so sad.
            That war was an experience children now can't really
       understand.  Really, no one born after, say, 1940 can.  If
       you leave out Stalin and his massacres, there was good on
       one side and evil on the other.  Besides, even Stalin had
       right on his side in that war, since the Germans were try-
       ing to conquer Russia and, in the process, were doing
       unspeakable things to so much of the population.  We were
       fighting for the freedom of the world and we were dead
       sure we had God on our side.  I remember lying in my bed
       in terror one night - I was 7 - being afraid that the Ger-
       mans were going to land paratroopers on Akron and we would
       all die.  My father showed me maps and tried to explain
       the Atlantic Ocean, but I would have none of it.  What is
       distance to a 6 year old? It did help that in my own way I
       was able to help fight that war.  You know how it was.
       Everyone helped, even children.  I remember pulling my red
       wagon around collecting for the scrap metal drive at
       school.  We were to get a certificate according to how
       much we brought in by weight.  I scoured the neighborhood
       with a friend named Paul and we agreed to split the weight
       because Paul's father couldn't take his half to school for
       him and my father would have to do it all.  It was one of
       the few times that my father really upset me because he
       didn't play fair.  I told him about the arrangement, but
       when we got it all to school to be weighed, he was having
       none of that.  "Where is he and where's his father?" he
       asked and insisted I get credit for all of it.  There was
       enough so that I got a silver certificate and had my pic-
       ture taken with the other silver and the one gold certifi-
       cate winners for the paper, but I was never happy about
       it.  I put the certificate away, and the picture, because
       I couldn't bear to look at them.  I can still see Paul's
       eyes looking at me with both disgust and accusation.  He
       made it even worse by not saying anything.  Even though I
       explained what happened, it was a long time before we were
       friends again.  The father of the girl who got a gold cer-
       tificate owned a lot of property and he brought in a whole
       fire escape for her.  Three stories worth.  What a show-
       off, I thought, because she hadn't done a thing herself.
       Now I wonder if she wasn't as embarrassed about her father
       as I was about mine.  And I know I was envious because if
       my father had found me a whole fire escape, there would
       have been more than enough certificates to go around.
            I can only remember one scrap drive, but every fall
       we collected milk weed pods for kapok for life jackets and
       there were paper drives at least twice a year.  I worked
       really hard at those because it was girls against boys and
       which ever side won got to watch propoganda movies at
       lunch time.  That was exactly what they were, and we took
       them to heart.  How to tell Japanese from Chinese and how
       terrible both the Japanese and the the Germans were.  Sys-
       tematically indoctrinating hatred in children.  Amazing to
       think about that now.
            I remember worrying, close to the end of the war.
       What would the radio mystery programs be about?  Jack Arm-
       strong, the All-American boy.  And the cartoon strips,
       especially Terry and the Pirates.  Brave deeds of derring
       do against the enemy and what would life be like when
       there wasn't an enemy any more?  Where would the good
       stories come from?  The Russians certainly took care of
       that, and for a very long time.
            And there was something else about the war.  Perhaps
       that's why I have been thinking about it so much lately. I
       felt necessary.  Of course every single person was neces-
       sary, but I was aware that I was.  I was part of The War
       Effort.  Not only did I collect paper and scrap and kapok,
       but on Tuesday mornings when I wasn't in school, I would
       put a safety pin on the end of a cord and use that to pull
       the cord through the tunnel sewn for it in the top of a
       blue ditty bag, (They always seemed to be blue, so our
       church must have sewn for the Navy.) so the bag could be
       pulled shut.  I did that for bag after bag while the
       ladies of the church sat at their treadle sewing machines,
       sewing more bags.  I also helped pack those bags with all
       sorts of things that were wanted by service men.  I can't
       remember what went in them except tooth brushes and small
       hotel soaps. Those soaps fasacinated me because they
       looked just like the big ones.  I helped my father weed
       our victory garden and even ate the rows and rows of broc-
       coli he planted, one row planted each week, because he
       didn't realize that broccoli could be harvested more than
       once.  My Lord, we had broccoli morning, noon and night
       for weeks.  I didn't start liking broccoli again until
       about ten years ago.  I ate it because broccoli seemed to
       be part of the War Effort.  I ate raw carrots because that
       was what night fighter pilots supposedly ate to improve
       their night vision.  We even had Carrot Days once or twice
       when I was in the second grade.  Amazing.  I ate whatever
       I was given to eat, including parts of animals that I
       hadn't heard of before and, thank God, haven't seen since,
       so that steaks and roasts and ham and pork could be made
       into Spam or rations and sent overseas.  I cleaned tin
       cans and flattened them for what we didn't know to call
       recycling.  I took other cans of fat to the butcher who
       gave me either a blue or red disc for each one, extra food
       ration points which I took home very carefully to my
       mother, partly because that meant more ketchup (Remember?
       That was rationed, too, because there is sugar in it.) to
       pour on my broccoli so I could get it down.
            So probably my uneasiness about the war ending and
       the loss of those wonderful stories of derring do, was
       even more a sense of losing my own importance, the sense
       that I would no longer be part of and contributing to
       something far bigger than I was, something that was really
       important to everyone and incredibly worth while.  When
       would I ever be that important again?  Never.  For one
       thing, a child's world is so small and that child is at
       the center of it, so I looked to myself far larger than I
       really was.  As the child grows, the world grows even
       faster.  It's a matter of proportion.  And beyond that,
       when would I be part of a whole country all pulling
       together in the same direction?  Probably not in my life
       time. Sadly people only five years younger than I have
       never known anything like that.  It's their loss.  It's
       the country's loss.  We could certainly use some of that
       sense right now.  People are far too self absorbed, have
       far too many disparate agendas that are far too small and
       far too few of them are willing to see the value in anyone
       else's agenda.  Until we can make those agendas fit
       together, however loosely, it's going to be hard to get
       anywhere.  Cultural diversity is wonderful.  It is valu-
       able and part of what has made this country great.  Each
       group, as it came to this country, has contributed some-
       thing unique.  We are trying to celebrate that now, but we
       can't let it divide us.  Because the one thing we all are
       is American and we damn well better start recognizing and
       celebrating that as well.  To see the broad brush strokes
       that unite us all.  We have to hang together or, as the
       old saying goes, we're going to hang separately.
            Excuse the high horse.  You and I touched on this
       once or twice but it's only in the last year or so that I
       have really gotten upset about it.  The language issue.
       We are an English speaking country.  The language is the
       one thing that really unites us and we let go of being a
       one language country at our peril.   How on earth are we
       really going to understand each other and be able to pull
       together if we don't speak the same language?
            We never talked much about the war or about how we
       grew up.  By the time we got to know each other, we were
       embroiled in husbands and children and school and jobs and
       the war was very far away.  So what's bringing the war to
       mind now? It undoubtedly started with remembering the day
       the world was supposed to end.  But why am I still think-
       ing about the end of the world?   The world is still here.
       I am still here.  Max is here.  But you're not.  I wish
       you were.




       Dear Maggie,
            What is it with toasters?   The first electric
       toaster worked well but demanded constant attention.  You
       had to watch the toast and open the door on each side of
       the toaster to turn the pice over.  Next came the pop up
       toaster which was a vast improvement.  Set it and forget
       it, unless someone else had come along and changed the
       settings.  But then, if it was underdone, all you had to
       do was put it down for a bit, then pop it up yourself.
       But like so many other things in life, toasters have been
       "improved" to near unusableness.  Aggravating to the point
       where I would like to take a baseball bat to it.  But
       I'd only have to buy another one like it.  They don't make
       the "old fashioned" kind any more.
            All of them have a crazy sensor. You set it, push it
       down (and the setting seems to need to be different for
       every brand of bread) and if it comes up underdone, you
       can't push it back down while it's still warm because it
       won't stay down.  The sensor says, "No, no, no.  You can't
       do that.  That is unacceptable.  I have done it as you
       said you wanted it done.  Take it or leave it." But if you
       wait until the toast has cooled off enough to push it down
       again, you'll get tan plywood.  Of course, if you change
       the control next time, so it toasts longer, you have a
       good chance of getting black plywood.  The damn toaster
       was controlling me and not me it. But now, at last, I have
       foiled the infernal sensor. And, as is usual with these
       things, the answer was so simple I don't know why I didn't
       think of it before.  Again underdone toast, but this time
       when I pushed the button down, I held it down with the
       butter dish, waited until it looked about right, then
       popped it up myself. Success! Perfect toast! The toast
       part of my life is under control once more.
            They've done the same thing with washing machines. My
       old one had two switches to control water temperature.
       One for wash and one for rinse.  I like warm - warm
       myself.  Can I set that on my new washer?  No.  Not unless
       I stand there and change it just before the rinse cycle
       comes on.   You turn the single dial to one of various
       settings combining Hot, Warm and Cold.  But there is no
       Warm - Warm setting!  The maker in their infinite lack of
       wisdom, didn't see fit to put one on so I do Warm - Cold.
       It has been "improved" beyond what is reasonable.
            On top of that, so many of these things "wonderful
       conveniences" are a trade off.  I love my dishwasher.  It
       saves a lot of time and helps keep the kitchen more tidy,
       and when there is company for dinner, there is nothing
       like it, of course.  But when there are children in the
       house ... Too many parents complain that their children
       don't talk to them.  Too many children complain that they
       can't talk to their parents.  When is there time?  We have
       organized out children to death.  Lessons.  Little League
       everything and if you don't start them when they're six
       they never have a chance.  But if they don't get to just
       play in the neighborhood, with each other, without an
       omnipresent adult to mediate, how will they ever learn to
       negotiate, to figure out for themselves what is fair and
       what isn't? Interpersonal skills, they call it now.  Chil-
       dren have to be taught that now which is never as good as
       learning it for yourself.  Added to which the poor little
       souls have their egos on the line all the time.  Will they
       be chosen for the team?   If they aren't first string,
       will they ever get to play or will they spend their lives
       wallowing on the bench.  When you play work-ups in soft-
       ball, you are playing all the time and you learn every
       position.  And the only person who suffers if you aren't
       any good at it, is you and even then, the only "suffering"
       is that you spend a lot more time in the field developing
       your defensive skills.  And with all this organization and
       all these labor saving devices, when do parents talk to
       children? The mother can when she is transporting a child
       to or from whatever activity it is that is constantly tak-
       ing them away from the family and keeping them from sit-
       ting around the dinner table as a family with time to
       talk.  The father?  When does he have time?  God knows.
       He has to create it which is never as easy as having it
       happen naturally such as when a child is weeding the gar-
       den with him or helping him clean the garage or the base-
       ment, or shoveling the snow.  And the mother, when she's
       not driving? Putting dishes into the dishwasher is a one
       person job.  Doing those same dishes is not.  That's where
       I learned "the facts of life," over drying the dishes for
       my mother.  I wasn't all that surprised.  I had heard var-
       ious rumblings about such goings on on walks home from
       school.  "Never before you're married," said my mother.
       "Not even the night before?" I asked.  "Not even the night
       before," my mother said firmly.  "That is something that
       is sacred to marriage alone."
            I learned about a lot of other things as well,
       including family history.  Wonderful stories.  Happy. Sad.
       Interesting.  Boring.  The whole gamut.  And I learned a
       lot of other things, too, by osmosis.  I talked to my
       mother while I was helping her with the dishes, or when,we
       were hanging washing on the line.  So while machines have
       freed women, and men, from a lot of drudgery, they have
       also isolated parents from children.  The worst offender,
       of course, is television.  Before TV and, to a lesser
       extent radio, people depended on each other for entertain-
       ment and information.  And children played games, with
       each other, because that was what there was to do.  I
       learned a lot from those games.  Strategy, fairness, liv-
       ing by the rules because there is no harsher judge than a
       child who has been treated unfairly.  And families played
       games together.  Nintendo must be fun.  So many people
       spend so much time playing it, alone.  It's person against
       machine.  TV is people watching a machine.  Computers are
       people talking to a machine or talking with disembodied
       others through a machine.  There are no arguments or per-
       sonality clashes or disagreements to be worked out, or
       power struggles.  It's all very neat and tidy. Control-
       lable and containable.  In other words there are none of
       the joys and aggravations of real relationships.  In fact,
       let one parent get going watching TV or using a computer,
       the arrival of a real live person - including a real live
       child - is too often considered an intrusion.
            So what these machines, this "progress" gives with
       one hand, it takes away with the other.  I just wonder
       when the cost in personal isolation of all this "progress"
       is going to be too high to pay.
            My God.  All this from a toaster.  And on a beautiful
       Minnesota winter day.  -2 degrees.  Bright and sunny.  The
       snow crunches.  The ice houses are out on the lake, late
       this year because of a warm December and skaters are all
       over the outdoor rinks in the parks.  Parents with their
       children, some of the children so small they just stagger
       around.  Boys with hockey sticks skating rings through and
       around everyone.  Splashes of color gliding over the ice.
       Wonderful.  Even more wonderful because Max is coming
       tomorrow and I haven't seen him in a month, haven't been
       able to talk to him in ten days.  And, when I got to the
       post office, yesterday, there was a letter from him.  His
       letters are so lovely.  Not poetic, not sweetly sentimen-
       tal.  Straight forward.  What he's doing.  What he misses
       about me,  both me as a person and me as a physical entity
       and that gets enchantingly graphic sometimes.
            Thinking of how close I came to never knowing him
       again still makes me shudder, which is silly, of course,
       because if he hadn't come back into my life, I never would
       have known what I had missed.  But that's what makes it
       scary, how much I would have missed.  How much better I
       know myself, how much more complete I feel, how much hap-
       pier I am.  It is crazy to think that I have finally
       learned what a functional relationship is in a venue that
       society would say was totally dysfunctional.  If anyone
       else knew, I would be branded as a parriah and so would
       he.  The one time I do have trouble is in taking commu-
       nion.  The minister stands up there and and says, "You who
       do truely and earnestly repent of your sins ..." What do
       you do about that?  How can I "repent" when I am more com-
       plete and happier and deal far better with my life than I
       ever have?  How can, as the old song says, something that
       seems so right possibly be wrong? It's a conundrum, and
       one that you had no answer for either.  You just gave me a
       hug when I finally told you about him and told me that you
       were glad that I was so happy and that life was so much
       better for me, that it had been long overdue.  I cried.
       Then you cried.  Then we both started laughing.    But
       it's odd that I never told you the story of how Max came
       back into my life, probably because I didn't talk to you
       about him until so long after the fact, and then not in
       much detail.
            Eight years ago, I was walking into the IDS Center on
       the skyway and looking into the Brooks Brother's store
       windows, not thinking about much of anything, when I ran
       into him, literally.  "Excuse me," says I, absently and
       walked on.  He looked startled but that was natural
       enough.  I had bumped into him hard.  He also looked
       vaguely familiar, but then, a lot of people do.
            Suddenly I heard a voice saying quietly, "Marianna
       Higgenbottom, don't go away."  I stopped.  I didn't turn
       around.  I just stopped.  It was the strangest feeling.  I
       hadn't heard or thought of that name in more than 35
       years. I had played Marianna Higgenbottom in a third grade
       play and Max had called me that ever after when he wanted
       to annoy me.  Only Max.
            I was still standing there, starting to feel foolish
       when he walked around and stood in front of me.  He looked
       at me.  I looked at him.  It was Max.  He was older.  A
       wider face, a slightly wider Max but only slightly.  A
       small scar on the left side of his chin now, a full head
       of wavy gray-white hair.  Those same light blue eyes and
       heavy eyebrows, but those were white now, too.
            "It is you, isn't it?"  he said.   Then I said as I
       had said to him a hundred times before, "Max Ehrenfeldt,
       don't you dare call me that any more." And we both started
       laughing.  How trite it sounds - phoney fake - but it
       really was quite wonderful.
            He was in town on business, had just finished for the
       day. Did I have time for a drink?  Yes, I had time for a
       drink.  It was 4PM.  So off we went to the bar in the
       Marquette Inn, talking the whole way.  I had red wine.  He
       had scotch and water and we talked and before either of us
       knew it, it was almost 5:30.  "Let me give you dinner," he
       said. "You and your husband both."   Don was out of town.
       I called the children.  Two of the four were still at home
       then and they were only too glad to order pizza.  Max and
       I stayed right there and had dinner.  It was wonderful.
       He talked.  I listened.  I talked.  He listened.  We
       talked to each other, and listened to each other.  It was
       a meeting of the minds.  I didn't have to explain any-
       thing.  We understood each other at once.  I wasn't having
       what I said dissected and analyzed and corrected, or
       argued with.  I didn't have to try to justify anything.
       He accepted what I was telling him.  He accepted me.  I
       was fine with him just as I was.  And I was beautiful
       because he said so.
            Part of the delight was in watching him talk.   He
       has a wonderfully alive face.  When he smiles, his whole
       face is involved.  For the first few minutes, it was hard
       to get over his being the Max of my childhood. But he was
       so easy to talk to and so much fun that I began to relax
       and was utterly happy.  I was even aware that I was happy.
       How often does that happen?  We talked about what he did.
       Or rather we didn't talk about it.  After 30 years in the
       Air Force, he was consulting for the Department of
       Defense.  He couldn't tell me who he was here to see or
       what he was here to do.  All he could say was that he
       would be coming to the Twin Cities from time to time.  He
       was looking at me hard when he said that, but it wasn't
       until the end of the evening that he said, rather
       abruptly, that he hoped he could call me when he was going
       to come back, probably within the next six to eight weeks,
       because he'd enjoyed himself and would like to see me
       again.  "Of course with your husband."  Those words were
       rather stiff.  He handed me a business card.  I just
       nodded and gave him my phone number and address and
       floated off to the car on Cloud 9.
            I told Don about running into someone from my child-
       hood and told him that if Max came to town again, he's
       like to take us out to dinner.  He just grunted and went
       back to his paper.  I didn't pursue it, because I wasn't
       comfortable about it and was naive enough to let myself
       think it was only because Don can be rude sometimes and
       the thought of him being that way with Max was more than I
       could bear.  I didn't talk to you about Max then, or for a
       long time.  Max was something I kept very close to myself.
       One reason was that I felt if I talked about him, the
       bubble would burst and what happened wouldn't be real any
       more.  Or that talking about it might trivialize it.  Of
       course, I also worried about what you might say.  It was
       only when the need to talk about him to someone I trusted
       became greater than the need not to talk about him that I
       took my courage in hand.  You didn't let me down.  That
       means more to me than you ever knew.



            Honest to God, Maggie, how do you live with a man who
       constantly impugns your motives, who is so self-centered
       that he thinks what you do always relates to him, and it's
       almost always negative. There is no good will in him for
       me.
            One of my failings is that I don't like to have to
       stay home all morning or afternoon waiting for a repairman
       who sometimes doesn't come.  That means when I schedule
       them, I schedule them well ahead and have several people
       come the same afternoon.  I have told him this, and I have
       told him that sometimes I wait too long to call unless it
       is something that intimately affects the running of the
       house.  Tonight he told me that if he asks me to do some-
       thing, it's a guarantee that it won't get done.  That I
       don't do those things because I don't like him, which is
       ridiculous.  I tried to tell him that, but as usual, he
       doesn't believe it.  If he thinks something is a certain
       way, - that includes my attitude and how I feel about
       something - that's the way it is whether it really is or
       not.  The trouble is, things like that become a self-
       fulfilling prophecy because when he's like that I really
       don't like him at all.  When he tells me I'm angry at him
       and I tell him I'm not and he insists I am, I get angry.
       Another self-fulfilling prophecy and so demeaning to me.
       He knows what I fell better than I do?  My God ...  I used
       to buy into his accusations, dissolve in tears and feel as
       if I were a terrible person.  No more.  And that's such a
       relief.  I'm not perfect but I am far from terrible. I
       know that I try to anticipate things, that I do lots and
       lots of things for him, mainly without being asked.  He
       told me that that didn't count. That what counted was when
       he asked me to do something, when he initiated it, that
       then it doesn't get done.  I am capable of procrastina-
       tion, especiallly when it's something I really don't want
       to do, and I admit that.  I don't like it about me and I
       am getting better.  It's not that I don't want to do it
       for him, just that I don't want to do it, period, or at
       least not in the way he wants it done.  Often I get
       orders, not requests and he leaves no room for discussion.
       But in saying that if he wants it, it doesn't get done, is
       ridiculous.  He ignores the vast majority of the time that
       I do it right away.  That is both painful and infuriating.
       But in saying I don't do anything he wants me to do, ...
       Another self-fulfilling prophecy.  Who wants to do any-
       thing for a person who treats you that way?
            It all grew out of a stupid "food fight."  It was so
       inane and because it was, it's one of the worst kind.  I
       usually don't let myself get sucked into those stupid
       things any more but that nigyht I was tired and at a low
       ebb. I can't cook to suit him, therefore he says I don't
       try to give him what he wants.  His likes and dislikes are
       so capricious. It got to the point where I would worry all
       day about what I was going to cook for dinner that would
       be all right.  He would call me on his car phone and ask
       what was for dinner and I would tell him and at least 75%
       of the time I would get a dull, "Oh," that told me that
       dinner didn't suit.  I was hurt, frustrated, and angry.
       When I started refusing to tell him, that made him angry,
       too.  He doesn't like fish (though he sometimes orders it
       in restaurants), or lamb, likes pork only occasionally and
       then only chops fixed one of two ways.  Chicken ...  For
       years he wouldn't eat it except one way.  Now there are
       two or three ways.  He'll like something for a while and
       then, suddenly, up and say he doesn't like it any more.
       That includes spaghetti - no matter how I fix it - which
       we ate fairly regularly for years.  And for the past
       couple of years, he doesn't want red meat very often. "I
       don't really like it."  He loved my chili.  Then he didn't
       like it.  Then he liked it again.  Then he said he wanted
       more beans and less meat in the chili. I put more and
       then, the next time even more, a much higher proportion,
       but again last night he had a fit about it.  If I ever
       make chili for him again, all he'll get is the damn beans,
       No meat at all.  I told Max a bit about this a few months
       ago and he couldn't believe it.  "Why do you take that
       shit from him?" he asked.  "You're cooking the dinner for
       him, aren't you? He doesn't have to cook for himself.
       Then next time he does that, I hope to hell you say "Here
       is your dinner," turn the plate upside down on his head
       and tell him that if he doesn't like it, he can go some-
       where else for dinner." I've never done that, but I am
       increasingly tempted, and I can't tell you how much his
       saying that sort of thing does for me.  I did take part of
       that advice, though. When Don calls, if he doesn't like
       the sound of what's for dinner, I tell him he's perfectly
       free to stop and have dinner on his way home.  The results
       were wonderful in one way; he no longer calls to ask
       what's for dinner, but he still does, all too often, show
       his disapproval once he gets here. It is so upsetting
       because I really do do my best to put good meals on the
       table.  Most of the time now, I can take the attitude that
       if it's not good enough, too bad.   But not always.  It is
       still upsetting.  I used to be a superb cook and enjoyed
       taking trouble over meals.  But another self-fullfilling
       prophecy.  All that criticism has made me a limited cook
       because there are so few things I feel I can cook.  I buy
       a lot of preprepared food now and try new things only out
       of desperation.  Why put a lot into it when the whim of
       the day may nake him not like it? But I know I am a good
       cook, or at least would be again.  All I need is an appre-
       ciative audience with reasonable likes and dislikes.   Max
       would be a dream to cook for.  He likes almost everything.
       On the few occasions when I have been able to cook for
       him, I was nervous, as you can imagine, but he was a very
       appreciative audience.  (In fact, it was the last time I
       cooked for him, and he was really enjoying his dinner,
       that I told him something about what went on at home.) But
       it would worry me to be cooking for him on a full time
       basis because, from all reports, his wife is a fabulous
       cook.  Maybe because part of that is because she's been
       able to try all sorts of things with encouraging results
       and hasn't had to get limited.
            Sorry to bitch about all this.  It's almost a conso-
       lation that you won't really have to read it. And it is
       good to put words around it.  Shove it out the typewriter
       and let go of it?  That would be nice.  I'm working on it
       hard.



       Dear Maggie,
            It's still winter but there is hope for spring.  The
       tree man was here today to see about trimming the dead
       wood from the oaks.  I hope I'm not here when they do it.
       It scares me to see that nice young guy out on a limb
       thirty feet up in the frigid cold, safety equipment or no,
       but as you know, it's the safest time of year to trim
       oaks.  The Dairy Queen down at Minnetonka Mills is open.
       The days are getting longer.  Yes, indeed, spring is com-
       ing.
            I've quit free-lancing, thank God,  That is really
       two jobs: finding the work, then doing it.  It was the
       finding that got to me. It's so competetive.  You know.  I
       fussed about it enough.  It's a whole different world
       having the work come to me and I really enjoy the people
       in the office.  I only have to go in one or two days a
       week and that's flexible.  The rest I can do at home.
       Thank God for compatible computers! Yes, I do know how
       lucky I am.  It's a little over half time and that's
       enough.  And an alumni magazine is a far cry from writing
       ad copy, thank God.  Though come to think of it, it's not
       that far a cry.  What else does an alumni magazine do but
       advertise the college?  But in a very different way. Very
       low key.  I had had enough of ad copy.  An occasional item
       in a class column is inadvertantly priceless, but there is
       one woman with a real sense of humor.  I appreciate her
       and so does everyone else.   I clean up the columns, lay
       out the whole magazine, do interviews, research and write
       some of the articles.  There are some really interesting
       people there, an eclectic bunch.  The last interview I did
       was an archeology professor who had taken six students on
       a dig in London, of all places.  They have a law there
       that, when digging the foundation for a new building, if
       history is exposed, all progress is halted for a specified
       length of time, long enough to let the archieologists in
       to salvage that history.  I saw that once myself, just off
       Fleet Street.  There was a huge hole in the ground where a
       sky scraper was going to go.  It was surrounded by tall
       buildings which made the hole look even deeper.  The big
       machinery was gone, except for one crane, and the whole
       excavation looked like a beehive.  Old stone foundations
       in a surprisingly regular pattern that were all but cov-
       ered with people wearing grubby work clothes.  Most of
       them were hunkered down, some digging carefully with trow-
       els, others sifting dirt through special large flat
       sieves.  Others were standing over battered wooden tables
       - a slab of wood or an old door on saw horses - sorting
       through things.   And there I was, on a busy London side-
       walk, watching all this.  It was a wonderful inconsis-
       tency.  He was delighted that I really understood what he
       was talking about.  Said it was quite an experience.  Odd
       for him, too, which was what appealed to him.  The find-
       ings were medieval.  The usual sort of thing.  Coins,
       shards of pottery and glass.  Nothing earth shattering but
       it was interesting all the same.  Good work, good company,
       a comfortable bed and had all the joys of London - includ-
       ing the British Museum, both in front of the scenes and
       behind it - when he had time off.  It's always such a
       pleasure to talk to people who really love what they do.
       They love to have people who really want to learn about
       what they know so well.  It was the same thing at the one
       man winery - Wermuth - when we were tasting our way
       through the Napa Valley a few months ago.  The owner was
       quite a character and the same way.  We tasted wines,
       learned a lot about how vineyards worked, and he was fun
       to talk to.  The wine we ordered was excellent.
            There is a junior named Julie who works in the office
       sixteen hours a week.  She's bright, a little shy and
       attractive with that singular attractiveness of youth that
       may turn to real beauty when she's about 40.  She's an
       interesting child, bright, funny, a little shy, someone
       any mother should be proud of.  She must have sensed that
       I appreciated her because I seem to have become something
       of a surrogate mother to her.  She's in love and she needs
       to tell someone about the wonder of it all.  And it is
       wonderful.  There is nothing like first love.  Who ever
       forgets it.  I haven't and I know you never did.  There is
       such a wonder in it.  People generally know that their
       parents love them and their grandparents, eyc. but those
       people "have" to.  Then comes this other person who loves
       you for "no good reason at all."  He just does.  It gives
       you such a different perception of yourself.  "I really am
       a loveable person."  The joy and the, dare I say gratitude
       for this is intense.  And Julie has given me a window into
       the heart of it.  Her heart anyway.  I know only about his
       from what she tells me.  At first it was just in snips
       with her looking over my left shoulder, watching for my
       reaction in her peripheral vision.  She still does that
       occasionally when she wants to tell me something she
       thinks I might find shocking.  My own life and four chil-
       dren later, I can still be appalled, but never shocked.
       It's the way this courtship is going that fascinates me.
       It's so lacking in romance in the way you and I understand
       it.  None of that slow dance around each other, the grad-
       ual progress of a relationship.  Meeting someone.  Getting
       fixed up on a blind date, say, in college.  All those awk-
       ward questions.  What's your major? What does you father
       do? What did you do last summer? Trying to get to know
       each other.  If it was a group, then it was far less awk-
       ward. Maybe he held your hand or put his arm around you.
       If you liked that, he might kiss you, but the signals usu-
       ally had to be very positive for you both for that to hap-
       pen.   If you liked him, but the signals were unreadable
       enough so you weren't sure how he felt, the next day you
       asked the friend who had fixed you up what she had heard.
       If she hesitated you knew.  If she said he'd had a great
       time, you waited by the phone.  If he called, off you
       went.  You remember the first big sign, if he gave you a
       long wool scarf in his college colors.  I still have two.
       They're good and warm.  The children wear them.  It was a
       gradual dance, moving around each other, getting closer
       and closer, ecstatic with each progression, and there was
       a progression with visible signs and signals recognized by
       you both and every one else.  The scarf.  Then you got
       pinned.  Then you got engaged.  Then you got married.  If
       sex came into it along the way, before you got married, it
       took a very long time.  It almost always meant a real com-
       mitment. Things had to be very serious and certainly no
       one talked about it.  Oh, early on, you expected a guy to
       try something, but nice girls didn't and I was a nice
       girl.  Now it seems to be instant sex, instant commitment.
       No wonder so many of them run from a real lasting commit-
       ment.  They get into too much far too soon and,
       undoubtedly, get burned too often in the process.
            At first I didn't realize that Max was courting me.
       I don't think he did either.  We were - and are - both far
       too committed to the family as a unit to deliberately go
       out looking for another relationship.  But I also think we
       were both needy, "starving," Max said to me about me much
       later and I cried so hard when he said that.  Not because
       he'd hurt my feelings, but because the sorrow and the ten-
       derness with which he said it made me able to see, for the
       first time, just how true that was.  And because he was
       holding me and smoothing my hair and letting me cry.  In
       some ways, I really was starving.  Once before I had cried
       in just the same way.  It was well before Max.  I had long
       wondered why I was so lonely and unhappy.  I had a suc-
       cesssful husband, a nice house, four great children.  It
       didn't make sense.  The old "what's wrong with me?" that
       so many women suffer from.  So many of us tend to blame
       ourselves for everything.  But then I watched, just by
       chance, a powerful documentary made by a Canadian woman as
       part of her rising out of the ashes of a very difficult
       life which included a sexually abusive father.  I heard
       the words emotional abuse for the first time.  Suddenly I
       saw it all as if it  had been laid out as a relief map.  I
       understood and I cried as much in relief for that under-
       standing as I did for the pain of the realization.  But
       then there was no one to comfort me or even to listen.
       You had just moved out of town.  We were writing letters.
       Long distance was still a real extravagance in those days
       and we were both carefully taught to be frugal.  So there
       I was and what was I to do? Leave him? I had 25 years
       invested in this marriage and four children to consider
       and no real way to earn a living for myself or them.  And
       I had somewhere deep within me a commitment to keep my
       family rogether.  I made up my mind that it was me I had
       to get straightened out.  Make my own life.  Get my own
       house in order, and once I did that, I would know what I
       needed to do and how to get it done.  I had been working
       on that hard for a year but progress was very slow and the
       cost of the process so high that my emotional batteries
       just about flat.  - You know all too well how hard it is
       to deal with both teen age children and a difficult hus-
       band. -  It was then that Max came into my life.
            After that first dinner, when I floated home, I was
       too happy to think about implications or consequences.  I
       was just happy.  I wanted to tell everyone what fun I had
       had but I also wanted to hug it to myself and not tell a
       soul because talking about it might diminish it.  That
       should have told me something, shouldn't it.  But I was in
       no mood to listen to anything but my own happiness.
       Tinged with anxiety, of course, that it might not have
       been real, might not have been as I thought it was, that
       he might never really call me again.  I did tell Don, as I
       said, and I did mention it in a letter to you.  I also
       told my mother that I had seen Max. She was still alive
       then, and she was pleased to hear about what had happened
       to the Ehrenfeldts in a abstracted way.  She never really
       knew them, except for Frank and Henny who spent a fair
       amount of time at our house.  Odd.  Now that I think about
       it, I didn't know Mr. and Mrs. Ehrenfeldt all that well
       either.  As children, we were all left pretty much to our
       own devices.
            I didn't hear from Max for five weeks.  By then he'd
       faded to a very small glow and a sigh because by then I
       thought he might have changed his mind.   A letter came,
       a handwritten note asking if Don and I could have a late
       lunch with him on Tuesday, ten days hence and asking me to
       call at a different number than the one on his card.  That
       evening I brought it up as casually as I could.  No, said
       Don.  He was leaving for Chicago that Monday and wouldn't
       be back until late Wednesday.  Then he went back to his
       paper, undoubtedly thinking that was that.  Usually it
       would have been but this time it wasn't.
            It surprised me to silence when he answered the phone
       himself.  I thought I'd have the time between his secre-
       tary answering and Max coming on the line to get myself
       organized, but I didn't.  He'd given me the number for his
       private line.
            We had lunch.  You know how I had to have fussed
       about how I looked.  Even that didn't tell me.  The first
       time I hadn't had a choice but I did now and I was grate-
       ful that I was in reasonable shape.  Four children had
       added a sag here and there, the waist was thicker, but,
       thought I, it wasn't too bad.  Singles tennis helped.  So
       did swimming.  But I was still nervous.
            I got to the restaurant before him and waited in the
       bar.  Somehow, when he came in a few minutes later, it was
       a surprise to see him standing there in person, looking
       just the same.  No suit this time.  A tweed sports coat
       and a turtle neck.  It suited him.  "More comfortable for
       travel than a tie," he said, noticing that I had noticed.
       "Travel?" said I.  "My plane leaves at 5," said he.  It
       was now a little after one.
            It was the same only better.
            I remember that we got laughing about The Landlady.
       She was quite a character.  Gertrude Grubbs.  No kidding.
       That rally was her name.  And it suited her.  But no one
       ever referred to her as anything but The Landlady.  She
       owned the house the Ehrenfeldt's lived it. On rare occa-
       sions she could be nice, but it was rare.  It was also
       unpredictable.  She had a sister named Grace who went to
       work every day.  We all knew why.  Grace was a very nice
       person and no nice person could live with The Landlady  24
       hours a day, 7 days a week and stay nice.  I can remember
       so clearly being in our front yard one morning when Grace
       stormed out of the house.  She was wearing her ubiquitous
       grey suit and the sensible low-heel black shoes that tied
       that all women over forty seemed to wear.  She had to have
       been on her way to work.  Anyway, as I said, she stormed
       out with The Landlady close on her heels. The Landlady was
       wearing her ubiquitous ankle length black dress with the
       bright flowers all over it, (I think she only had one.),
       thick black cotton stockings, felt slippers and a heavy
       hairnet.  She was dressed for staying at home since she
       always looked the same and never seemed to go anywhere.
            She was talking after Grace at a great rate.  Voice
       high pitched and angry but I couldn't understand what she
       was saying because she didn't have her teeth in.  Finally
       Grace turned around at the end of their short sidewalk,
       face red, fists clenched, every muscle clenched as she
       leaned forward, shouting almost in her sister's face, "Why
       don't you just shut up for once.  Yes.  I said it.  Thank
       God.  Shut up.  Shut up.  You are the most mean spirited
       person I know."  And with that she turned and walked
       almost as if she were marching, with her back ramrod
       straight, her black purse bumping against her leg with
       every step.  She marched past the Ehrenfeldt's, past their
       stony side yard (no one on that side of the street had a
       back yard) and the big buckeye tree, past the gas station
       on the corner, waited for the light to cross West Market
       Street, one of the major streets in town, then waited
       again to cross Elm Street on the other side of Market, to
       the bus stop in front of the gas station on the other side
       of the street.  At least I assume that that was where she
       was going because once she started across Elm Street on
       the other side, i couldn't see her any more.  My father's
       church was in the way.  The Landlady and I both just stood
       there, watching her go.  The bus must have been just pull-
       ing up as she got there, one of those big busses that ran
       on electric trolley lines, because I saw one go buy, then,
       at last, I had enough sense to busy myself with the broom
       I had brought out with orders to sweep the front walk.  I
       saw The Landlady out of the corner of my eye as I swept.
       She stood looking across at me suspiciouly, with those
       eyes that always seemed about ready to pop out of her
       head. Her chin was almost up to her nose in disapproval.
       Finally she turned and slopped back across the porch in
       the felt slippers that always seemed to be too big for
       her, went into the house, and slammed the door behind her.
       Yes, indeed.  I liked Grace a lot.  And after that day I
       thought that not only was Grace a nice woman, But Grace
       also had guts.
            Max loved it.


            Ian, Obviously I haven't finished this letter, but I
       have to get this to you and get some work done in the
       house before 6 PM.   See you tomorrow (Sat.)   AJ
LAYOUT 000

STANDARD2
B
<
