





                                   Prologue



          It was bitterly cold and all three men huddled together on the
      windward side of the stretcher in a futile attempt to screen the
      man on it from the force of a wind which had already gusted across
      the steppes for thousands of miles and so wasn't about to be
      deterred by two shrapnel-pocked walls and the ruins of a roof, all
      that was left of the hanger in which they stood.
          Major Georg Brandt stuck a gloved hand in each armpit and
      hunched his shoulders as he stamped his feet in a futile attempt
      the circulation. Nothing helped but then nothing could, not even
      the fleece-lined flight boots he was wearing, because the cold was
      too relentless.  It had become a permanent ache, always there on
      some subliminal level, even when it wasn't acute.
          "Where's the Generaloberst?"  Hauptmann ___________Schuster
      jerked an angry thumb toward the stretcher.  "If we don't get him
      onto that plane soon, he's going to die."
          "We'll all die if we don't get onto that plane soon," Georg
      Brandt said mildly.  Schuster sounded as if there was something
      unususal about dying and he couldn't imagine why.  Everyone did it
      sooner or later and in this hell hole it was always sooner.  Every-
      one is Stalingrad was dying.  It was simply a question of how long
      it was going to take each man to do it.  Amazing that so many of
      them had lasted this long.  The old cliche?  Hope springs eternal
      no matter how hopeless things are?  Tell a hundred men about to go
      into battle that 99 will die and they'll all go happily, each sure
      that he'll be the one to survive?  Fools. He flapped his arms then
      refolded them across himself.  All of them fools if they were hop-
      ing for anything.  But then - he smiled a bitter little smile -
      these three were getting out, we're they, so perhaps there was some
      justification for it after all.   Despite everything, they'd man-
      aged to stay alive and beyond that even managed to keep Hans
      Richter alive just long enough to let his uncle, Generaloberst Karl
      von der Greif, play  deus ex machina, dropping from the sky in his
      corrugated JU 52 carrying all the medical supplies his plane could
      hold, supposedly to look into the 6th Army's desperate supply situ-
      ation, all perfectly logical, of course, since he happened to be
      the Quartermaster General of the German Army, eventhough everyone
      knew there was nothing that could be done unless the supply lines
      could be shortened to a degree that would be nothing short of mira-
      culous, or a thousand more pilots and planes could be hatched
      within the next 24 hours.  But logical still since though the log-
      istics were increasingly impossible, Berlin still believed that a
      stiff upper lip and orders to stand fast and never retreat could
      accomplish everything and therefore would rejoice in Karl von der
      Greif's junketing, feeling sure that he was applying the necessary
      starch.  If only they knew.  That was the last thing he would be
      doing.  The real reason he'd come was to urge Genearl Paulus to
      turn on Adolf Hitler, to make a broadcast denouncing the Fuehrer's
      military insanity and ask the Weharmacht everywhere to rise against
      him, ending by committing the ultimate defiance and surrendering
      the Sixth Army to the Russians, saving what few men were left
      before it was too late for them all.  But there was a reason even
      beyond that.  The Generaloberst had come here to find Hans Richter
      and bring him out and he had brought a doctor with him to make sure
      he got out alive.  Major-Doctor Brandt avoided looking down at the
      stretcher.  It was going to be a near thing.
          He stamped his feet angrily, ignoring the exquisite pain this
      was beginning to cause, and wished Karl success with a ferocious-
      ness even he found surprising, a ferociousness born during 48 hours
      in Stalingrad.  And at the same time he damned Goering for insist-
      ing that the Luftwaffe could supply the whole of the surrounded
      Sixth Army despite their being thousands of miles from the German
      frontier which in turn gave Hitler just the excuse he needed for
      ordering Paulus to stand fast and fight when the army still could
      have broken out of the noose the Russians were tightening around
      it.  Supply a whole goddamn army when there didn't begin to be
      enough planes and pilots, let alone fuel?  And even if that hadn't
      been the case, fly in supplies and fly out the wounded while the
      Russians were concentrating their artillery and fighters to prevent
      just that?  And to compound the felony, Goering's Folly was killing
      off too many of the precious few pilots they did have and their
      planes with them which meant that there were even fewer planes and
      pilots to do an already impossible job!  Of course, every day there
      were fewer and fewer men in Stalingrad to use those supplies,
      weren't there, so one would tend to think it might all even out,
      but it never did, did it. It couldn't while the Russians were oper-
      ating on home ground with short supply lines while the German sup-
      ply lines were ridiculously long, and strained beyond all logical
      limits.  It was stupid.  All so stupid.  And now all these men were
      dying because of that stupidity, the cream of the Whermacht, the
      whole of the Sixth Army dying on its feet, sans clothes, sans food,
      sans ammuniution, sans everything.  Clothes were being stripped
      from the dead and put on by the living before the bodies had
      cooled.  The horses needed for transport were long gone because
      they were needed even more for their meat.  Rats were the newest
      delicacy, rats fat from feeding on the dead, feeding the living.
      Cannibalism once removed.
          He turned to look out, willing the plane to come but there was
      just empty runway - and that visible only sporadically through
      gusts of snow - the edges marked by airplane wreckage.  The Russian
      shelling had stopped for the time being and men were out with picks
      and shovels, tryin g to fill in the morning's allotment of craters,
      men who were too weak for such work, especially in the terrible
      cold.  But they did it anyway because without that runway, they'd
      have no chance for life at all.
          Suddenly there was a roar and the men scattered.  One plane
      came in, then another and another until there were five bumping
      across the uneven surface, each pilot praying that he wouldn't
      burst a tire because there were no spares.  Not in Stalingrad.  So
      this was the noon convoy.  God...  Too small.  Far too small.  But
      then it always was.
          "Is one of those planes ours?" asked Schmidt anxiously.
          "Yes."  Even if it wasn't the same plane, one of them would be.
      theirs. Rank doth have its privilege.  Thank God.
          "At least the Generaloberst didn't keep it sitting around,
      waiting his convenience.."  Schmidt's voice had turned gloomy.
          "Or for the Russians to blow it off the runway," Schuster said
      with a flash of bitterness that was unusual for him.
          "He would have sent to plane back for more supplies, Russians
      or no," Georg Brandt said wearily.  "That's just the way he is."
      Karl von der Greif always had his priorities right, even where he
      himself was concerned.  Maybe especially where he himself was con-
      cerned.
          There was a drone that was the sound of speed and Georg
      Brandt's head jerked up eventhough he knew what he'd see.  Their
      own fighters - Messerschmidts - buzzing around, staying high,
      waiting.  Baby chicks taking care of the mother hens.  A reversal
      of the usual situation.  But then that was what war was, wasn't it,
      a reversal of everything usual until the unusual became the usual
      and even the bizarre became the norm.  Killing rewarded...
          "I wish he wouldn't do that."  Schmidt sounded irritated.
          Hans Richter was lying on the stretcher, wasted fingers pluck-
      ing absently at the single button left on the tattered great coat,
      one so large for him that he had been swathed in it as if he were a
      baby and it was a bunting.
          "No, Has," Georg said gently.  Then he hunkered down and put
      the exposed claw of a hand back inside the coat before tightening
      it more firmly across his chest, thinking as he did that tehre was
      nothing to Hans.  God knows he wasn't big, no more than medium
      height and slim even in the best of times and this was scarcely the
      best of times.  Still, he was nothing.  A bag of bones.  And fever.
      He readjusted the straps, then tightened them down, too, to hold
      both Hans and the coat in place.
          There was no reaction.
          Georg Brandt stood and looked out again.  The wind had died
      momentarily he could see the supply planes being unloaded at double
      time at the other end of the field where the control tower still
      rose out of the rubble that had been the terminal.  But though his
      eyes took it all in, he didn't really see any of it because the
      vision of that cadavarous face had seared itself into his brain.
      Sweat turning to hoar frost on the scraggle of black beard.  And
      those eyes.  Staring.  Vacant.  Nothing.  At least he wasn't in any
      pain, thanks to the special supply of morphine Karl van der Greif
      had had him carry in in his pocket.
          "...live?"
          The voice jerked him back.  "What did you say?"
          "Will he live?"  Schuster asked it more emphatically this time
      and Georg Brandt was forced to look at him, really look at him,
      something he'd been trying not to do.  Even his mother wouldn't
      have recognized him.  The cherubic-faced fire-plug of a boy he'd
      seen in France in l940 had disappeared.  Instead what he saw looked
      like a scarecrow that had been left out in the field far too long.
      Schuster was filthy, his face weathered, lined, cheeks sunken, eyes
      red-rimmed and the clothes...  The clothes.  God.  The remnants of
      various different Wehrmacht uniforms simply hung off him, including
      a great coat which was held together across the front by baling
      twine.  Everyone in Stalingrd looked like that, more or less, but
      despite everything, they were still soldiers.  The butt of Schus-
      ter's rifle might be scarred and cracked and the sling which hung
      it over his shoulder might be woven from rags, but the rifle itself
      was clean, loaded and ready to fire.
          "I hope so."
          "Hope?!"  It was a roar from Schmidt and suddenly Georg
      Brandt's lapels were grabbed and he was hauled against a bony
      frame.  The stink of rotten teeth made him flinch.  "You'd better
      do more than hope, Herr-Doctor-bloody-Brandt.  If it hadn't been
      for him and the crazy cavalry-to-the-rescue charge he led into the
      Barricady tractor factory, Schuster and I would have been rat food
      along with about 30 others!  You saved him in France.  We saw you
      do it.  Just do it again!"
          Georg jerked back and tore himself away.  "France?  What in the
      hell has this got to do with France?  In France he was healthy.
      You all were.  Healthy and at least 30 pounds heavier.  He had
      reserves then, and there was a well-equipped field hospital com-
      plete with bandages and medicines, for God's sake.  Remember
      medicine?  Bandages?" he asked sarcastically and then turned away
      because he couldn't face what they had become.  "There aren't any
      bandages here, are there."  His eyes were stinging and he had to
      clear his throat. "Or at least damn few and those are made of
      paper.  Changed only twice a week, if that."  He shuddered.  "And
      you know as well as I do that if you and Hauptmann Schuster hadn't
      found a clean white shirt - and God alone knows where you found it
      in that filthy hell hole - to use to bandage him, he would have had
      no chance at all.  And before that...  They'd stuck him out in the
      hall, hadn't they."  He was facing them, angry again, his face in
      Schmidt's and this time it was Schmidt who was backing off, looking
      away.
          "You know the hall, don't you," Georg Brandt hissed.  "The
      place where they put the cases that are too far gone to help, the
      ones needing too complicated an operation or too many bandages or
      medicines that simply don't exist here.  The theory seems to be
      that our heroic fighting men ought to be put out of the misery
      humanely, and the hall is the only way to do that since who would
      be willing to kill each of them outright?  Especially since it
      would have to be done with a knife because bullets are in too short
      supply to waste shooting even one into the nape of the neck of a
      man who's dying anyway, even if someone could be found who had the
      stomach for it.  All those precious bullets have to be saved for
      living Russians, don't they.  So our wounded heroes of Stalingrad
      get put into the hall,  and as more and more come in they're moved
      farther and farther down that hall to where it opens out onto noth-
      ing, moved along until they're exposed enough to freeze to death.
          "Hans was about half way down that hall when you and
      Hauptm,annb Schuster found him, wasn't he.  I know he was because
      the doctor told me all about it.  How you two came and raised hell
      until they let you take him and you had to take him out of there
      yourselves because there was no one to help you.  And you had to
      take care of him yourselves, didn't you. Bandaging him. Feeding
      him. Feeding him the biggest fattest damn rats you could find,
      sometimes fighting other men to get them for him."
          Schuster had suddenly seemed to find his feet quite fascinating
      and so his nod was slow.
          "And you had to have fed him some of your own rations as well,
      when you got any, because he was officially dead so he wasn't
      allowed a ration.  And you did that eventhough you both needed all
      the food you could lay your hands on just to stay alive yourselves.
      And did you use any of that precious white shirt to bandage that
      shoulder wound of yours, Hauptmann Schuster?   And Hauptmann
      Schmidt, as for your ... intestinal problem..."   To call it that
      was a kindness.  Unless he missed his guess, Schmidt was in the
      beginning stages of dysentery and so shouldn't be allowed on that
      plane.  It wouldn't do to carry dysentery back to Berlin and let
      the people at home know just how bad things really were in Stalin-
      grad, would it.  Oh, no.  Of course not.  But in one of his few
      lucid moments, Hans had refused to leave without these two and it
      was easy to understand why.  The way they had stayed with him, kept
      him alive, though just barely, in one of those stinking cellars
      that passed for hospital wards in Stalingrad these days. No lights
      because lighting the darkness was a luxury.  The fuel couldn't be
      spared to run the generators.  Or the autoclaves either, for that
      matter.  So there was just a very occasional guttering candle and
      surgical instruments sterilized in alcohol that was used and reused
      because that was in short supply as well.  And hands sterilized in
      that same alcohol for bare-handed surgery because the gloves had
      worn out long ago.  The only things there were plenty of were the
      wounded, the never-ending lines of the wounded and the starving,
      and cold and filth and stink.  Would that stink ever leave?  It had
      sunk into his hair, his clothes, his mind, a mixture of unwashed
      bodies, corruption, blood, incontinence, death and fear.  Odd.
      He'd never realized that fear had a smell, except to horses.
          "And if he does live, Herr Major,"  Schuster was asking in the
      flat hard voice that was now his, "what about his leg?"
          Georg sighed.  "So far it's only a simple infection."  Horrible
      but simple, at least as far as the leg itself was concerned.  "If
      gangrene doesn't develop..."  He shrugged and started stamping his
      feet as the other two paced slowly through the long silence.
          "Hurry!"  They turned as one as Generaloberst Karl von der
      Greif's voice preceeded him around the corner.  "The plane'll be on
      the way.  Taxiing down here to pick us up.  Sorry for the cold, but
      there ... too many wounded over there."  He gestured toward what
      was left of the terminal.  "Some nasty incidents.  Strecther cases
      trampled by walking wounded rushing the planes.  Others, too."  His
      disgust was obvious.  "Men not wounded at all."  He looked down at
      the stretcher and then quickly away as if the sight was too much to
      bear.  "So be quick."  He flapped an impatient hand.  "When the
      plane turns, the co-pilot will open the door.  Be ready to take the
      stretcher, Brandt.  And help him, please, Pflueger." He looked
      toward his aide who had followed in his wake.  The man nodded
      quickly, put the handle of a brief case over his wrist and moved
      toward the head of the stretcher.
          The plane was coming.  They could all hear it.
          "Hauptmann Schmidt.  Hauptmann Schuster," the Generaloberst
      snapped, "Rifles at the ready.  We're going to cover them.  Shoot
      anyone we have to."
          They all looked at him in astonishment and he looked back, his
      face grim, set, as he drew his own pistol and pulled back on the
      slide to put a bullet into the chamber.  "That's an order."
          Schuster and Schmnidt unslung their rifles as if in a bad
      dream, their eyes darting this way and that.
          The plane taxied into sight.
          "Go!' The Generaloberst ordered and Georg Brandt and Pflueger
      picked up the stretcher and moved as the plane turned in front of
      the hanger and the door opened. Schuster and Schmidt, followed by
      the Generaloberst moved between the them and a group of men who
      were running after the empty plane, shouting and waving angry
      fists.
          They had to shoot.
LAYOUT 000
:ê  B 
  
*®U   <
_        ˙ \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
