

                                 Chapter XVII

         Sergi climbed over the rubble that covered the sidewalk in front
    of what had been the Cafe Ardiet, tore the front door off the last
    fragment of hinge and threw it behind him.  Only then did he stop to
    look at what was in front of him.  It was all too visible in the
    light of the buildings burning on the north side of the square.
         The north wall of the cafe was gone and there was a mass of
    beams and flooring and ceiling cascading down into the cellar.  He
    knelt and put a tentative hand through the opening that had been the
    doorway and onto what looked like a solid mass of floor.  He pushed,
    testing it with a little of his weight.  There was an ominous creak-
    ing and shifting.  Something snapped and skittered, making him pull
    back as if his hand had been burned.  His heart started to pound and
    his breathing turned shallow.  The colonel was in there and he had to
    get him out.  He just didn't know where to start.
         "Colonel Richter."  It was only a wheeze.  He cleared his throat
    and tried again.  This time it was a bellow.  "Colonel Richter."
         If there was an answer, it was borne away on the wind, hidden in
    the roar and crackle of flame, the crash of falling masonry, the deep
    throb of the engines of the fire trucks in the square and the two-
    toned wail of sirens coming closer.
         "Sergei."
         He turned,  hope rising.  "Major Schuster," he said slowly as
    despair fell back around him like a shroud.  Captain Schmidt was
    there, too, looking with narrowed eyes at the chaos beyond him.
         "He's in there," Schmidt said.
         "With Major Brandt, Major Wagner and probably Captain von
    Feber," said Sergei.
         "Then we'll have to get him out."  Schmidt took off his uniform
    jacket and placed it carefully on the rubble.  "We'll need shores to
    keep the rest of the walls from falling in, saws, crow bars, ropes,
    lights and plenty of help.  Sergei, go find the field police and tell
    them we need help.  Schuster, you know enough French.  Deal with the
    firemen.  They'll have most of what we need."

         It was utterly black.  Hans was choking on dust and consumed by
    fear.  Something under him was moving so violently that he rolled off
    it and onto a hard gritty surface.  At least that seemed stable.  
         He heard a spasm of coughing and wheezing, then a woman's voice
    said his name, calling to him just as Annaliese did in his dreams.  
    There was a sudden tightness at the back of his head,
         He scrabbled to his knees and shuffled backwards until something
    stopped him.  He half turned and struck out and down, onto something
    firmly soft.  He pulled his hand back with a cry.  It was a woman's
    breast.
         The tightness at the back of his head came around until it was
    boring in at his temples.  He was sure there was no way out, that he
    was dead, that he would live through eternity of blackness, breathing
    dust, hearing only the moans and cries for help and ominous creaks
    and cracks that filled his ears.
         "Hans."  The woman was right next to him. He drew in a breath
    and straightened so she wouldn't touch him.  "I'm sorry.  You were
    crushing me.  Are you all right?"
         "Annaliese?"
         "No, Hans.  It's Madeleine."
         He felt a hand on his arm and jerked away, half falling onto the
    woman behind him.   He pushed himself up and felt arms close around
    him.  He thrust out his elbows to free himself.  "No," he said.  
    "No."
         "It's Madeleine," the woman insisted.  "You're in the Cafe
    Ardiet, in the cellar.  There was a bomb.  Major Brandt and Major
    Wagner should be right here and you were calling for someone named
    Peter.  Who is Peter?"
         "My cousin.  He was right here.  Peter?  Where are you, Peter?"
    The only replies were distant muffled cries for help, then a man's
    voice said, "Hans, it's Georg.  I'm right here, by you.  Ulrich fell
    on me.  You've got to help him.  I can't move."
         Hans flinched at the sound of a rasping scratch then squeezed
    his eyes shut at a sudden flare of light.
         "Here, Hans, a candle," Madeleine said to him in her halting
    German.  He opened his eyes and saw her face, smudged with dirt and
    shadow.  "Guy was right to have put them around, don't you think?"
    There was a false brightness in her voice that wasn't reassuring.
    "Take it."  She thrust the candle out at him.  "I'll light another."
         Hans took the candle and lifted it high.   The support beams had
    splintered, letting the ceiling cant down to the floor.  They were in
    a small lean-to against the front wall with barely enough room to
    move.
         He saw Georg straining to look up at him, but the body was lying
    across his back at an angle that made that impossible.
         "What about Ulrich?"
         Hans moved the candle to one side and looked at the body again.  
    He could just see, sticking out at an angle, a handless left arm.  
    His head was invisible, crushed under the splintered end of a beam
    that was still attached to the ceiling.  "He's dead."
         Then, suddenly, as sometimes happened to him in battle, it was
    as if Hans were outside himself, watching what he was doing.  His
    mind cleared and he began to move. He started looking for Peter.
         Peter had been close by, just along the front wall and there had
    been a woman with him.  And now there was a woman on the dirt floor
    just behind him.
         There was the flare of another match and Madeleine lit a second
    candle.  He could see that the woman was lying almost parallel to the
    wall with a man who had to be Peter angled across her.  He reached
    over to find the pulse in Peter's neck.  There was nothing.  He took
    a deep breath, coughed out more dust and tried again.  He made him-
    self move his fingers slowly, carefully around Peter's neck, just
    under his jaw where, after what seemed to be an eternity, he found
    the carotid artery pulsing with a strong steady beat.  There was a
    surge or relief that put him back within himself.   He turned to the
    woman.  She was alive as well.
         There was another sharp scratch followed by more light.  Made-
    leine had lit a third candle.  Georg had his chin resting on his
    forearm and was holding a candle in his other hand.  "I heard you
    call for Peter." Georg said. "He isn't far."
         "Behind me, covering the woman.  They're both alive but uncon-
    scious." He turned back and lifted the candle.  "There's blood."  An
    ominous pool glowed black in the candle light.  "I can't tell whose
    it is."
         "I will see," said Madeleine, still in German, as she began
    squeezing by between Hans and the wall.  He moved slightly to give
    her room while he considered the situation.  Freeing Georg had to be
    his first priority.
         He moved toward Georg to give her room while he considered the
    situation.  Because Peter and the woman were hurt, freeing Georg had
    to be his first priority.
         "The woman is bleeding from her ... scalp."  Madeleine said the
    last word in French.
         "Can you tend to her?"  Hans asked.
         "Yes."
         The problem was to move Ulrich's body enough to let Georg get
    free without upsetting the precarious balance of the wreckage.
         Hans gave his candle to Georg then edged around him on his hands
    and knees, gradually lowering himself because of the slant of the
    ceiling until he was flat on his stomach on the hard dirt floor. He
    inched forward, his hands sticky with Ulrich's blood, until he was
    stopped by the wreckage.  Despite the deep shadows, he saw that the
    splintered end of the beam had both crushed his skull and nearly sev-
    ered his head from his body.  Hans inched backward until he could
    move around Georg, to where the bulk of Ulrich's body was.
         He saw that Madeleine had put out her candle and was using both
    hands to tie a compression bandage she had made from strips of what
    had to be her slip around the woman's head.   He waited until she was
    done, then said,  "Take the candles from Georg, Madeleine, then back
    right up against the wall and hold them high."  He talked to her in
    French so there could be no misunderstanding.
         She leaned toward Georg and took the candles.
         "Georg," - Hans switched to German. - "I am going to try to move
    Ulrich without moving the beam.  The minute you feel any easing of
    pressure, pull yourself forward."
         Hans' mouth was dry emptiness as he came to his knees.  He bent
    forward, placed his hands on Ulrich's hips and, slowly, carefully,
    began to pull.  Nothing happened.  He tried again.  Still nothing
    happened.  He let go and inched around even further, until his shoul-
    der was just scraping the fallen ceiling.
         He reached under Ulrich's uniform jacket, grabbed the belt on
    each side of his waist, then in one slow, continuous motion, both
    pulled the body sideways and twisted it.
         Everything happened at once: Ulrich's body came free from his
    head and flopped onto its side; Georg pulled himself free; and the
    beam shifted.  Hans cried out as the ceiling slammed into his shoul-
    der, and knocked him over amid splintering wood and dust.  The wreck-
    age snapped and creaked, rumbled and groaned in a violent effort to
    resettle itself.  The candles had gone out, so he was again lying
    dazed and half sick, looking out through utter blackness, hearing
    renewed wild cries of pain and fear.  But then he heard a single
    sharp cry, and a querulous voice complained in loud English, "Where
    am I?"
         Ulrich was dead.  Peter was alive.


         "Wait. Wait." Schmidt yelled frantically.  "Do you want the
    whole thing to fall in?"
         Everyone froze, watching the wreckage heave and churn until it
    had settled itself again.
         "What did we do?" Schuster asked anxiously.
         "Nothing," Schmidt said.  "At least nothing I could see. We were
    just beginning."
         "Wait."  This time it was Sergei.  He was lying full length on
    his stomach, looking down.  "I hear something."
         They all heard the frightened cries and groans but only Sergei
    heard a single muffled, barely comprehensible voice crying out in
    English, "Where am I?"
         "Colonel Richter," Sergei called down over the edge.  "Are you
    there?"
         Suddenly, there was light coming through cracks in the flooring.  
         "Is it fire?"  Sergei called out.  There was fear in his voice.
         "No." The voice came from below.  "Candles."
         "Colonel Richter," he called again.  "Is that you?"  The voice
    he heard had spoken English, but it didn't sound like the colonel.  
    Neither did this voice.  He could only pray that it was.
         It was at least a minute before there was a reply.  "The colonel
    is here and he's fine.  I'm Major Georg Brandt.  Madeleine Ardiet is
    here and a lieutenant and a woman who are both injured. Can you get
    us out?"
         "Yes. It's Sergei Voronov here.  Captain Schmidt, Major Schuster
    and many other men are getting ready to dig you out."
          "Be careful, Sergei," Georg said, "We're in a small area in the
    corner which got even smaller when everything shifted.  It could
    shift again."
         There was a ragged cheer from the other side of the building
    where the damage was less severe.  People were climbing out of the
    wreckage.
         "Herr Major," Schmidt was leaning over the edge, talking down.  
    "We'll be careful." He turned back to the men who were gathered
    around him.   "This is what we're going to do.  There are five people
    trapped in the corner, in a small area.  We're going to make a hole
    big enough for someone to go down to help them with the wounded.  Then
    we're going to haul these people out one by one."  He lowered his
    voice and looked at Sergei.  "I want you to go down, if you will."
         Sergei smiled up at him.  "Of course." Then he rose, dusted off
    his hands on the seat of his pants and waited for Schmidt's orders.


         Madeleine held one candle, Hans the other.  Georg was beside
    Peter, probing.  He was lying face down across the woman.  There was
    sweat running off the half of his face that Hans could see and he was
    grimacing in pain.
         "His right collar bone is broken and some high ribs."  Georg
    looked up at the beam over them.  It had just snapped and slid part
    way down the wall until it rested precariously on one of the founda-
    tion stones that protruded slightly from the wall.  "Maybe his shoul-
    der blade as well.  He has a concussion, painful but probably not
    fatal, though that beam may be, if we're not careful.
         "We'll get him off her, roll him toward the wall onto his left
    side, and pull her out.  Peter," he said, "this is really going to
    hurt.  Brace yourself."
         Peter nodded.
         Hans handed his candle to Madeleine and moved into position.  
    "Ready."
         "On three.  One, two, three."
         They lifted and rolled Peter as gently as they could but the was
    a long drawn, "Ahhhhh," of pain, then in English, "Stop.  I can't
    ..."
         Georg cut him off with a hand over his mouth.  "Talk German,
    Peter."  Then back to Hans.  "The way he is, wedged in there against
    the wall, the ends of his collar bone will scrape with every breath
    he takes.  Talk to him, keep him quiet while I move the woman.  And
    support his right arm.  Then get him out from under this beam and
    make him a sling."
         Hans Held onto Peter's forearm, supporting it as Georg pulled
    the woman away.  Peter's eyes were screwed shut and drops of sweat
    rolled down his forehead.
         "It's me, Peter," Hans said in German.  "Hans ... John."
         Peter opened his eyes to slits and he looked at Hans carefully.  
    "What are you doing here, John?" he asked in English.
         "Talk  German, Peter," Hans said.  Then he told Peter where he
    was, what had happened and why he had to talk German and only German.
         Peter's eyes opened.  "How is the Sylvie?" He said it in German.
         Hans looked back at Georg.
         Georg was bent over the woman.  She was lying on her back with
    her head in the corner under the bench, her body parallel to the side
    wall.  Madeleine had moved down along the wall as far as she could
    and was sitting with her legs making a tent over the woman's knees.  
    She still had a candle in her right hand.  Georg had the other one.  
    He pulled up one of the woman's eyelids, waved the candle slowly,
    back and forth, and then did the other eye.
         "How is she, Georg?" Hans asked.
         "Pupils are equal and reactive," he said, "and her pulse is
    strong.  That part is good. I won't know the rest for certain until
    we can get her out of here.  She needs a hospital."
         "She has a daughter," Peter said.  His voice was thick.
         "Keep him awake, Hans," Georg said.
         "Who is she, Peter?" Hans asked.
         "Just a woman.  Sylvie ... Flambard.  I met her at the hotel."
    Peter's eyes closed.
         "Open you eyes, Peter."
         There was no response.  Hans slapped gently at his face.  "Wake
    up."
         Peter's eyes blinked open.
         "Georg says you have to stay awake."
         There was an attempt at a grin.  "What does Georg know?"
         "He's a doctor."
         "That's good."
         "You need to sit up so we can put on a sling."
         "It hurts to move."
         "The sling will help."
         "Who is Peter, Hans?"  Madeleine asked quietly.
         Hans looked around at her.  "I told you, he's my cousin."
         In the silence that followed, they could hear the men overhead,
    doing something that made alarming scraping sounds and sent dust and
    grit cascading down in thin streams.  Something hit something else,
    then slithered down.  Hans looked up warily.  There were shouts, then
    an ominous new series of creaks and groans.
         "Come on, Peter," said Hans.  "We have to get you up and out
    from under this damn beam."
         "Keep his right arm supported," said Georg.  He was testing the
    woman's reflexes.
         It was a difficult and painful process, but finally Peter was
    sitting, leaning against the wall almost at Georg's back.  His eyes
    were closed and his face was ashen.
         "Hold the candles still, Madeleine." Peter was leaning over Syl-
    vie unbuttoning the top of her dress.
         "How is she, Georg?" Peter asked.
         Georg waited until he had finished probing her ribs. Then he sat
    back on his heels and sighed.  "If we can get her out of here soon
    enough, there's a good chance."
         Just then there was a shout.  Georg looked up.
         "Get against the walls right in the corner, all of you.  We're
    going to try to open a hole."
         "Careful.  There's very little room," Georg yelled back.
         "Just do the best you can.  And put out the candles. Sergei is
    coming down to help you.  He has a flashlight.  Yell when you're
    ready."
         "What are we going to do with Peter, Hans?" Georg asked softly.
         "Leave me here," said Peter.  "It's safer that way."
         Hans sat looking at him, seeing the pain and the eerie gray dust
    that coated everything.  "No."
         "He is your American cousin," Madeleine said abruptly.  "The one
    who came to Prussia.  The one who is like a brother to you.  The Ges-
    tapo will kill him if they catch him, and they'll kill you." She
    turned to Georg. "And you.  There has been enough death.  Give him to
    me."
         They all just looked at her.
         "I know a place where they won't find him," she said.  "But he
    has to be able to walk." She was still looking at Hans.  "Can he
    walk?"
         "Can you walk, Peter?" Hans asked without taking his eyes off
    her.
         "Yes."
         "Georg?" Hans asked.
         "He'll need a sling.  Otherwise, I don't see why not, as long as
    it's not too far.  When he gets up there, I'll see to him.  Insist
    you're fine, Peter.  Tell me that you don't need to go to the hospi-
    tal.  The hospitals are crammed anyway.  But you will need someone to
    keep an eye on you, in case you lose consciousness again." Georg
    switched to French.  Could a doctor see him, Madeleine?"
         "I think so," Madeleine said slowly.
         Hans was still looking at her steadily. "What about the woman?"
         "She's French," Georg said.  "She can go to the local hospital,
    if there's room.  If not, we'll have to take her to ours."
         "Hurry up," Schmidt's voice shouted from above.
         "Ready?" Madeleine asked.
         "If you are, and if you're sure," said Hans.
         "I'm sure," she said.
         "Peter?" asked Hans.
         "What other choice is there?"
         "None," Hans and lifted his face.  "Ready."  It was a roar.


         "Careful," said Schmidt.  "Ease it over.  Just enough.  Just
    enough.  Whoa."  He was leaning over three men, directing them as
    they pried loose the last two or three pieces of shattered flooring.  
    At first they had been able to move quickly, almost raking debris out
    of the way, lifting what was loose.  But now they were down to one
    board at a time, prying them up when they were still attached,
    quickly testing each one, tugging gently to see if moving it affected
    the balance, shoving it back if it seemed to, prying it loose or
    carefully moving it to one side if it didn't.
         They kept on until finally Schmidt said, "Enough."  They all sat
    back on their heels.
         "Ready, Sergei?" Schmidt asked.
         "Yes, sir."
         There were two heavy ropes.  One was tied around his chest, just
    under his arm pits, the other was lowered down through the hole care-
    fully.  "Once you get down there, tell me what you need," Schuster
    said.  Then he held up a canvas contraption.  "You know what this
    is?"
         Sergei took it and opened it, looking at it carefully.  Then he
    smiled, took the rope he was to use to climb down, made a loop in it,
    snapped the hook on each side of the canvas onto it and held it up in
    triumph.  It was a seat, a bosun's chair he would have said if he had
    known the German words for it.
         "Exactly," Schmidt said.
         Sergei unhooked it, then hooked it to the rope around his chest.  
    Someone else hooked a flashlight onto the rope on the other side and
    turned it on.  The flood lights were burning his eyes which were
    already red from grit and smoke.  He blinked several times then moved
    to the edge.  He sat on the front door sill and let his legs dangle
    into the opening, waiting while the ropes that were to support him
    were winched tight.  He was tired - they all were - but he felt calm
    and ready to get on with it.
         "Move a little to your left," came a muffled voice from below.
         He moved the few inches he could.
         "If that's all the farther you can move, you'll have to be care-
    ful.  There's a beam that could go, just to your right."
         "I will be careful."
         "Ready, Sergei?" Schmidt said.
         Sergei turned himself onto his stomach and felt with his toes
    for the foundation stones.  Schuster gave him a little slack on the
    rope around his chest, just enough to let him plant both feet on the
    wall. He put both hands on the stationary rope, nodded his head at
    Schmidt and started down.

         Hans could hear the scraping of boot soles on rock, hear the
    small grunts of concentrated effort and see the partial circle of
    light made by the flashlight dancing on the wall and floor as Sergei
    worked his way down.
         "The beam's just to your left," Hans said.  "Don't let your
    shoulder touch it."
         "Is anyone under my feet?" Sergei asked.
         "No.  Stay right by the wall."  Hans moved back to give him
    room, crouching low under the angle of the fallen ceiling, setting
    his feet carefully because of the debris that was there.
         He was surprised by the extent of his relief at seeing Sergei.  
    Though Hans knew too well the sort of effort it took, Sergei made
    what he was doing look easy.  As he neared the floor, the eerie light
    of the flashlight magnified Sergei's shadow, making it loom larger
    and larger as the focus of the light got narrower and narrower,
    until, as Sergei landed, it covered everything but Peter's face.
    Peter was watching him warily, his eyes blinking against the force of
    the light, as Sergei stood there undoing the knot in the rope around
    his chest.
         Hans moved carefully until he was able to stand right beside
    Sergei and help him with the knot, which was proving to be a problem.
         "Are you sure you're all right, sir,"  asked.
         "Yes.  But there are two injured, one, a woman who's uncon-
    scious.  I think Georg needs to go up first, to be up there at
    arrange to take care of them as they come out."
         "There is an ambulance waiting and I have this."  He held up the
    canvas sling chair."
         "The woman can't sit in it.  Georg will have to think of
    something. Georg?"
         "Do they have a basket stretcher up there?" Georg asked.
         "I don't know, Sir."
         "I'll see to it."
         "You go first, Georg," said Hans, "then Madeleine while you're
    looking into it, then the woman, Peter, Sergei, then me."
         "I will be last, sir," Sergei protested.
         "No.  That's an order."
         As Georg was going up, Madeleine said softly, "He has to walk up
    the steps and into the hotel.  Once he's there, I can get him and his
    things away, before anyone thinks to come and check up on him."
         Hans turned to Peter.  "Can you do that?  Walk into the hotel?"
         "I will do it."
         "Is this something I need to know about?" Sergei had spoken in
    English.
         Schmidt's voice came back down through the hole.  "Get the next
    one ready."
         The sling chair came back down.  Sergei grabbed it.  Hans
    crouched down and edged back to help Madeleine over the woman's body.
         There was a low moan.
         They froze.
         "Sylvie?" Peter said.
         "Hurts."  It was a muttered mumble.
         Madeleine crouched over her.  "You're going to have to go to the
    hospital but you're going to be all right."  She was talking in
    French.
         "Can't ... hospital."
         "Yes, you can.  It will be fine.  You will be fine."
         "Madeleine," Hans said.  "You have to go.  Peter will tend to
    her."
         She looked back at him. Her face was an unearthly white, her
    mouth a tight little line.  "I will take him, Hans," she said as she
    got into the chair.  "This woman, too, if that is necessary.  She
    would be easy.  We are a large family.  We could make her part of
    that until she can go home."
         "Just take Peter. We can worry about the woman when she's ready
    to get out of the hospital."
         "I am ready," she said.
         Hans called up.
         They heard the winch begin to turn and Madeleine's feet left the
    ground.
         "Peter?" said Sylvie.  Her voice was weak.  "Are you all right?"
         "I will be," Peter said.
         She closed her eyes.
         "What is this about?" Sergei asked.
         Hans moved to speak right into Sergei's ear.  They were talking
    English.  "This man is my American cousin Peter. Call him Lieutenant
    Jaeger.  The British sent him to see me."
         Sergei pulled back and looked at him.  "Why?"
         "I'm not sure yet.  I didn't ask him to come and I don't want
    him here."
         "But you don't want him to die here."  They could hear the mur-
    murings of Peter and Sylvie talking in the background.
         "That's right."
         "I'll do my best."  He paused.  "It was he who called out in
    English?"
         "You heard him?"
         "Yes, but no one else heard.  I was right at the edge.  But I
    worry about what people down here might have heard." Their eyes fol-
    lowed the progress of Sergei's flashlight through the ruins all the
    way around to Ulrich Wagner's body.  The light stayed steady on it.  
    The handless left arm was clearly visible.  Sergei heaved a large
    sigh and the light moved on.
         They heard a scuffling sound behind them and turned.  The woman
    was on her hands and knees, her head hanging down.  Peter had leaned
    toward her and was using his free hand to steady her since she was
    swaying slightly from side to side.  Sergei got to her as she would
    have fallen.  He grabbed her, lifted and turned her, setting her
    against the wall next to Peter.  "You must be still," he said to her
    in German.
         Peter repeated it to her in French.
         She barely nodded.  Her head was back against the wall, her eyes
    were closed and she was breathing fast.
         "Quick," Hans yelled up. "The basket stretcher, or the chair and
    a rope to tie her in. The woman is conscious but she may be going
    into shock."
         "Out of the way," Schmidt said. "We're sending it down."
         The chair arrived.  There was a rope loosely coiled in the seat.
         "You will have to go up with her, Colonel.  She cannot sit in
    that chair by herself even if we tie her in.  The back is not high
    enough."
         Hans looked at him warily.
         "This is no time to argue, colonel.   And there is no other way.  
    The lieutenant is injured and cannot hold her.  I will send him up
    next.  That way you will be ready to receive him there.  It is safer.  
    Then I will come up.  I can climb if I have to.  Please." He opened
    the seat.
         Hans sat in it.
         Sergei turned to the woman, put his hands under her armpits,
    braced her knees against his shins, then leveraged her up and turned
    her into Hans' lap.
         Hans crossed his arms in front of her and grabbed the opposite
    edges of the seat.
         "Both the Colonel and the lady are in the chair,"  Sergei
    called.  "Be careful."
         The upward progress was slow.  Sergei guided the seat so it
    wouldn't sway until Hans' head was almost through the hole.
         Then he looked down at Peter who was still staring up into the
    shadows.  "Major Brandt will see to her," Sergei was careful to speak
    in German. "He is a good doctor."
         There was a slight nod, then Peter asked, "Who are you?"
         "The colonel's driver.  Before that, I served his uncle, the
    colonel general, in Berlin.  I am Russian, but my mother was
    English."
         "Complicated."
         "Less complicated than you are at the moment."
         There was an abortive laugh that ended in a gasp of pain.
         "Are you all right?"
         "In a minute."
         Sergei waited in silence.
         "I need to get up, to be ready when it comes back down. But I
    can't do much with my right arm."
         "I will help you."  Sergei considered the situation.  "There is
    the bench in the corner. It would be easier if you could get up onto
    that first."
         "Right."  Peter hitched himself along the floor until he could
    put his left elbow onto it.  Then, using his left arm for support, he
    twisted around onto his knees. But then he leaned forward onto the
    bench, his head on his left arm.  "Sorry," he said.  "Dizzy."
         "I will have them lower the seat, so it is close to the floor.  
    Then you can back into it."
         "Wait." Though he was still on his knees, Peter pushed himself
    upright, lifted his right knee, and put his foot squarely on the
    floor.  Then, using his right leg and left arm, he pushed himself up
    and turned onto the bench.
         "Good," said Sergei.
         Peter just nodded.  He was gaunt with pain.
         A voice came from above. "Coming down."
         The canvas seat arrived.
         Sergei moved to Peter's right side, watching carefully as he
    stood, then gave his shoulder for support as Peter turned.
         "Lift the seat half a meter," Sergei yelled upward.
         It moved up.
         "Stop."
         It stopped.
         As Peter began to turn into it, Sergei reached for the seat to
    steady it and they bumped into each other.  Peter grabbed for him but
    missed and overbalanced to his right.  He put out his right foot and
    jerked himself left, into the beam.  It gave him the momentary sup-
    port he needed to stay on his feet, but at a price.
         It all seemed to happen in slow motion.  There was sharp grating
    sound as the broken end of the beam scraped by the small stone knot
    on which it had been resting and began grinding its way down the
    foundation.  The ceiling that the beam supported bent and began to
    crack.
         Sergei moved.  He got under the beam, lifted his hands and
    guided its slow descent the few inches it took to get to his right
    shoulder.  Then he stood, his back against the wall, bracing himself
    with his legs, holding up the beam.
         "Go up," he said to Peter.  It was barely more than a grunt.
    "Send down a brace," he said.  "Something about meter and a half
    long.  Hurry."
         "I'll ..."
         "You can't.  Your arm.  If I let go, we'll both die.  Hurry."
         Peter struggled into the floppy seat.  "Pull me up," he called.  
    "Hurry."
         Sergei watched his seemingly agonizingly slow ascent.  His legs
    were quivering with the effort and his shoulder was beginning to
    burn.  He stood, counting slowly, enduring.  He decided he could do
    this for thirty more.  When that was done, he did another thirty.  He
    didn't think.  He just counted.  Then twenty five and another twenty
    five, making himself count slowly, so there wouldn't be so many
    sequences, realizing that he could not hold out for that many more.  
         As he was on his second twenty, he saw a thick wooden beam that
    might have been a railroad tie, guided in its descent by a man in a
    canvas chair who all but plummeted down. It was Schmidt.
         Schmidt had his own flashlight. "For God's sake, Sergei..."  He
    untied the rope from the beam with a quickness of hand and, ignoring
    the debris, dragged it up to Sergei.
         "When I say three, bend your legs and throw yourself left."
         "If you miss, Schmidt ..."
         "I'm not going to miss.  Just do it."  He lifted the rough beam
    on end.  It came two thirds of the way up Sergei's upper arm.  "Are
    you ready?"
         "Yes."
         "One, two ..."
         On three, Sergei let out a long breath, relaxed his knees and
    pushed himself left.  He slid down the wall on shaking legs, and
    watched as Schmidt, gauging carefully, put the brace flat against the
    wall where Sergei had been and, with arms outstretched, held it there
    with the force of his whole body.  The beam ground on down the wall
    amid appalling creaking and cracking, and Sergei was terribly afraid.  
    But Schmidt had judged it nicely.  Floor beam met support beam and
    stopped.  Schmidt held fast for a few moments, then gradually let go.  
    It still held but suddenly there was a violently cracking.  Schmidt
    threw himself onto Sergei as the ceiling just beyond the beam caved
    in.
         "God in heaven, that was close."  Schmidt sat up and wiped his
    face on his sleeve.  "Let's get out of here before anything else hap-
    pens."
         Sergei's body was shaking so hard that Schmidt had them drop the
    seat level with the floor so he could crawl into it.  "Away you go,"
    he said.
         When Schmidt got back to the top, before he did anything else,
    he saw to the careful raising of the rope that had been along the
    wall.  It was tied under the armpits of what was left of Ulrich Wag-
    ner.  His uniform coat was pulled up from the bottom and turned
    inside out to cover the stump of his neck.  "I'm sorry to bring him
    up this way," he said to Hans, "but there wasn't time for anything
    else and I didn't want to leave him down there.  He was a good man."
LAYOUT 000
:ê  B 
  
*®U   <
_        ˙ \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
