
                                         February 7th, 1986

        Maggie.  My God, you won't believe what happened yes-
       terday.
        I had just walked into the IDS Center from the skyway
       and was glancing into the Brooks Brother's store windows,
       not paying any attention to where I was going when I ran
       into someone.  "Excuse me," said I, and walked on.  The man
       looked startled.  He also looked vaguely familiar. But a
       lot of people do, so I didn't think anything about it.
        Suddenly I heard a voice saying quietly, "Marianna
       Higgenbottom, don't go away."  I stopped.  I couldn't even
       turn around.  I just stood there.  It was the strangest
       feeling, as if I were 10 years old and back on Elm Street
       again.  I had played Marianna Higgenbottom in a third grade
       play and Max Ehrenfeldt had called me that ever after when
       he wanted to annoy me.  No one else. Only Max.
        He walked around and stood in front of me and it
       really was Max!  Can you imagine how that felt?  Here I had
       been writing you about growing up with Frank and Henny,
       about Max and the last time I saw him when I was ninteen
       years old, and there he was.  It was all so wildly improb-
       able.
        He looked older, of course.  A wider face, a wider Max
       but only slightly.  A small scar on the left side of his
       chin now, smile wrinkles at the corners of those same light
       blue eyes.  A full head of wavy grey-white hair and heavy
       white eyebrows.  Still not handsome, just enormously
       attractive.  It was so amazing that I could only stare at
       him.
        "It is you, isn't it?"  he said.   Then I said as I
       had said to him a hundred times before, "Max Ehrenfeldt,
       don't you dare call me that any more." And we both started
       to laugh.  How trite it sounds - phoney fake - but it
       really was quite wonderful.
        He was in town on business, had just finished for the
       day. Did I have time for a drink?  Yes, I had time for a
       drink.  It was 4PM.  So off we went to the bar in the Mar-
       quette Inn, talking the whole way.  I had red wine.  He had
       scotch and water.  We kept talking.  Before either of us
       knew it, it was almost 5:30.  "Let me give you dinner," he
       said. "You and your husband both." Don was in Washington
       over night.   I called the children.  The younger two still
       live at home and they were only too glad to order pizza.  
       Max and I stayed right there and had dinner.  It was wond-
       erful.  We talked and talked and listened and listened.  
       There is a wonderful quality to his listening, attentive,
       involved.  I never thought of involved listening before but
       that is what it was.  Last night it seemed like the most
       natural thing in the world but today I find it breathtak-
       ing.
            It wasn't that we agreed about everything.  We didn't.  
       But the talking back and forth about our differences was
       fun, too.  I wasn't having what I said dissected and ana-
       lyzed and corrected, or argued with.  I didn't have to try
       to justify anything.  I just was.  It was incredible.
        Part of the delight was watching him talk.  He has a
       wonderfully expressive face.  For the first few minutes, it
       was hard to get over his being the Max of my childhood but
       he was so easy to talk to and so much fun that that didn't
       last.
        His parents, like mine, are both gone but all the rest
       of the Ehrenfeldts are doing fine.  Frank teaches auto
       mechanics at the vo-tech in Akron.  Married with three
       children.  His wife is also a teacher, third grade.  Henny
       is still in the Navy.  More than thirty years.  A Chief
       Petty Officer. A damn good one, says Max and I believe him.  
       Max really likes Henny's wife.  They have seven, count
       them, seven children.
        Max is married. His wife works at the Applied Physics
       Lab outside Washington, editing the journal they publish.  
       Three children, a son and two daughters.  His son went to
       the Air Force Academy and is a captain in the Air Force.  
       His older daughter is just finishing medical school at
       Stamford.  His younger daughter is only 13, in the eighth
       grade, born when he was 45 and his wife was forty.  "She
       keeps us young," he said with a funny little laugh.
            Max retired from the Air Force a full colonel after
       thirty-five years and now consults for the Department of
       Defense.  But he couldn't really say much about that, even
       about who he was here to see or what he was here to do.  
       All he could say was that he would be coming to the Twin
       Cities from time to time.  He was looking at me hard when
       he said that, but it wasn't until the end of the evening
       that he said, rather abruptly, that he would like to call
       me before he came back the next time, probably within the
       next six or eight weeks, if that was all right.  Of course
       it was all right.  "I'd be glad to take you and your hus-
       band to lunch."  "Of course," said I, though for some rea-
       son I wasn't comfortable with that.  He gave me a business
       card.  Just his name, the Department of Defense and a phone
       number.  I gave him my phone number and address.  Then he
       gave me a quick hug.  I liked that.  It was nice.  I
       floated off to my car.
        I told Don about running into Max and who he was and
       that if Max came to town again, he would like to take us
       out to lunch.  Don just grunted and went back to his paper.
        It was then that I realized why I had been uncomfort-
       able when Max mentioned having Don come. When the time
       comes, if Don can't or won't go it will probably be just as
       well.  He can be rude sometimes and the thought of him
       being rude to Max is more than I can bear.
        I have been so happy all day.  Not talking about it to
       anyone.  Just hugging it to myself.  Maybe I'm worried that
       if I talk about it, it won't be real any more?
        I put his card away in the pocket in the cover of my
       address book.  I'm really glad I have it.  Otherwise the
       whole thing might seem like a dream.





                                   February 14th, l986

       Dear Maggie,
        I am recovering.  Honestly.  I read what I wrote in my
       last letter and it's embarrassing.  I sounded sixteen.  Sad
       to seem so grateful for a little attention.  It says a lot
       about my life.  But, oh dear, it was fun.  I haven't
       laughed like that in ages.  And the memories he brought
       back.
        The Landlady for one.  Gertrude Grubbs.  That really
       was her name and it suited her.  But no one ever referred
       to her as anything but The Landlady.  She owned the house
       the Ehrenfeldt's lived in as well as the one next door,
       where she lived with her sister, Grace.  On rare occasions
       she could be nice, but it was rare.  It was also unpredict-
       able.  One minute she would be pleasant, the next she would
       be calling the cruisers (the police) if we so much as
       stepped one foot on her small patch of front lawn.  The
       police didn't like her any better than we did and always
       urged us to be careful to stay out of her way.  We tried.  
       But because of where she lived, it wasn't always possible.
        Her sister, Grace, went to work every day.  We all
       knew why.  Grace was a very nice person - We all liked her.
       - and no nice person could live with The Landlady  24 hours
       a day, 7 days a week and stay nice.  Grace had been mar-
       ried, but we knew no more about it than that, and we knew
       that only because her last name was Miller.   It suddenly
       occurred to me that it might have been the landlady who had
       been married instead of Grace, that she might have inher-
       ited those houses from her dead husband.  An amazing
       thought that had never occurred to any of us.  If it's
       true, and the poor soul did die, no wonder.  What man could
       live with that?
        I remember so clearly being on our front sidewalk one
       morning when Grace stormed out of the house.  She was wear-
       ing her ubiquitous pale grey suit and the sensible low-heel
       black shoes with laces that all women over 40 seemed to
       wear.  She had to have been on her way to work.  Anyway, as
       I said, she stormed out with The Landlady close on her
       heels. The Landlady was wearing her ubiquitous ankle length
       black dress with bright flowers all over it (If she had
       more than one, they were all exactly the same.), thick
       black cotton stockings, felt slippers and a heavy dark
       hairnet.  She was dressed for staying at home since she
       always looked that way and never seemed to go anywhere.  
       She was talking after Grace at a great rate.  Voice high
       pitched and angry but I couldn't understand what she was
       saying because she didn't have her teeth in.  Finally Grace
       turned around at the end of their short sidewalk, face red,
       fists clenched, every muscle clenched as she leaned for-
       ward, shouting almost in her sister's face, "Why don't you
       just shut up for once.  Yes.  I said it.  Thank God.  Shut
       up.  Just shut up.  You are the most mean spirited person I
       have ever known."  With that she turned and marched away,
       her back ramrod straight, her black purse bumping against
       her leg with every step.  She marched past the Ehren-
       feldt's, past the packed dirt of their side yard (no one on
       that side of the street had a back yard), the big buckeye
       tree, past the Cities Service gas station on the corner,
       waited for the light to cross West Market Street, then
       waited again to cross Elm Street on the other side of Mar-
       ket, and walked to the bus stop in front of the Sohio sta-
       tion.  At least I assume that that was where she was going
       because once she started across Elm Street on the other
       side, I couldn't see her any more.  My father's church was
       in the way.  The Landlady and I both just stood there,
       watching her go.
        Then, at last, I had enough sense to start sweeping
       the walk with the broom I had been leaning on.  I saw The
       Landlady out of the corner of my eye as I swept.  She stood
       looking across at me suspiciouly, with those eyes that
       always seemed about ready to pop out of her head. Her chin
       was almost up to her nose in close-mouthed disapproval.  
       Finally she turned and shuffled back down the sidewalk and
       across the porch in the felt slippers that were always too
       big for her, went into the house, and slammed the door
       behind her.
        Yes, indeed.  I liked Grace a lot.  And after that,
       not only did I like her,  I respected her.  Grace didn't
       put up with her sister's nastiness after all.  Grace had
       guts.
        Max hadn't heard that story.  He loved it.  He didn't
       like The Landlady any better than the rest of us did, prob-
       ably even less since he so often had to take the weekly
       rent over to her.  "Stale candy." He made a face, then
       laughed which made me laugh.  "The ribbon kind?  She must
       have bought a ton of it one Christmas and made it last
       until the next.  And the raspberry shaped ones that were
       soft in the center, or should have been."  She always
       offered it and he always took a piece, to be polite.  But
       he never ate it.  The ants must have had a field day under
       the Ehrenfeldt's front porch.
           Then he sat back, shook his head slowly and said
       that he never understood why Grace stayed there.  That she
       was a bright woman with a good job keeping the books at a
       men's clothing store downtown and probably could have
       afforded a small place of her own.  Instead, she stayed and
       took a lot of abuse from her sister.  He could hear them
       in the summer since his room was on that side of the house.  
       "Or at least I could hear the Landlady.  Ruth never seem-
       ed to have much to say.  But what her sister had to say
       to her ..."  He shook his head. "No one should have to take
       that kind of abuse, especially not someone as nice as
       Grace."
            "That's so sad."  It was all I could say.  But his
       words have been coming back to me over and over ever since.
       "No one should have to take that kind of abuse, especially
       not someone as nice as Grace."   Grace didn't deserve
       abuse.  She wasn't getting physical abuse.  I was sure of
       that.  - Grace was a lot bigger than the Landlady. - Max
       was talking about something I had never really thought of
       as abuse before.
            Then three nights ago I saw a documentary made by a
       Canadian woman talking about her life and how she had been
       physically and sexually abused.  Doing the documentary was
       part of her recovery.  And it was powerful.  But the most
       insidious abuse of all, said she, was the emotional abuse
       she took.  What Max had said fell into place and I under-
       stood the concept at once.  It was the answer to why I have
       been so unhappy for so long. I sat there and cried for a
       very long time.  Thank God the children were in bed.
            I hadn't been able to understand why I was so unhappy.  
       I had a husband and four wonderful children, a nice house,
       reasonable financial security, such good neighbors and a
       large measure of personal freedom.  I wasn't abused. Don
       never hit me.  I wouldn't have put up with that.  So why
       was I so unhappy?
            Because I am emotionally abused.  Don can be terribly
       abusive in what he says about me as a mother, a wife, as a
       person, in every sense, especially after he's had a couple
       of drinks.  It is a relief to have a name put to this, to
       recognize it, to know that I am not alone in having to put
       up with it, to know that I'm not crazy for feeling as I do.  
       But it's also incredibly painful.  And now that I know, I'm
       going to have to do something about it.  But what?  The new
       job is a start.  It is wonderful not having to scrounge for
       work.  And, when I'm in the office, I'm with people, making
       contacts.  I am beginning to see what's out there in the
       real world in a whole new way, I'm making a lot of contacts
       and I'm finding out that I am good at a variety of things
       that I really enjoy doing.  Part time as it is, this job
       could even lead to something, if not where I am now, at
       another college in town.  I've discovered I really do deal
       well with people.  They tend to like me, to enjoy my com-
       pany and appreciate what I do.  Also, I'm learning that I
       really am well organized.  That has been one of Don's per-
       sistent criticisms of me, that I'm not lazy and disorga-
       nized.  And I bought it!  Though how I could have accepted
       that when I ran a successful free lance business along with
       keeping a house and raising four children with very little
       help from anyone, I don't know.  And I don't know why I
       haven't seen all this sooner.  Thank God I'm seeing it now.
        There is another big plus in my life.  Before the end
       fo the month I shall, at last, get my inheritance from my
       father.  His will has been an unconscionably long time in
       probate.  I am going to take good care of it because I want
       it to grow.  It will be wonderful to have some money of my
       own behind me, security, something that's mine, that I can
       rely on, that will be there when I need it.  Don's not
       happy about that.  He wants me to put it in both our names.  
       His salary goes into our joint account, says he. So does
       mine.  But not this.  None of this.  I will get some inter-
       est income from it that will be mine to do with as I wish.  
       He was furious especially after I pointed out to him that
       he doesn't put the honoraria he gets for leading symposia
       or giving talks into the joint pot, and that's not an
       insignificant amount of money.  I have no idea how much it
       is or what he does with it.  So now I will have some "hono-
       raria" of my own.  It will be wonderful to have some money
       that I can spend without having to justify to anyone how I
       spent it.  Don has been by turns caustic and pathetic but
       there's nothing he can do about it except bluster and tell
       me how selfish and unreasonable I am.  I'm sure he's threa-
       tened by what I might do if I had real economic freedom.  
       But he'll just have to get used to it.  I like the thought.  
       It will give me far more control over my own life.  Thank
       God.
             I sometimes wonder why I stay.  There are all the
       reasons I've written above about the realtively good life I
       lead, secure finances.  And at my age that is a real con-
       sideration.  Lord, that makes me sound so mercenary.  But
       the thought of going into old age without financial secur-
       ity really scares me.  And, of course, there are the chil-
       dren.  Even at their ages it would be difficult.  Marian,
       the woman from work that I had dinner with, told me that
       her parents separated when she was 42 after 45 years of
       marriage, that they were two nice people who never should
       have married each other, that they should have divorced 25
       years before but it was astonishing to her how upsetting it
       was, as if nothing in life is permanent.  And she felt that
       if she was having such feelings, what must young children
       feel when their parents divorce?
            I think about my children and know that worrying about
       how they might feel is a cop-out.  My children are not
       small.  They're almost grown.  They would manage.  And
       Marian's mother did have that courage, but not until she
       was 74.  Granted, there was enough money for her, just.  
       I'm only 50 and I do still have the chance of pursuing a
       career for 15 years before I retire, so why do I worry
       about that?
            One thing, if I did leave, the children would never
       lose their father. Don really does care about them and does
       the best for them that he's capable of.  They recognize his
       limitations, a least the older two do, and they're willing
       to take him as he is.  The distance he keeps from them
       makes them sad, but they're grateful for what they do have
       with him.  As difficult as he can be, he does care and he
       does try, not only with them, but with me.  We do have
       interests in common and from time to time, he really is a
       lot of fun.  I think that's part of what keeps me going.  I
       see what could be in our marriage, what is in it for brief
       flashes.  If only ...  No.  I'm not going to indulge in
       that.  "If onlys" are the stuff of which madness is made.  
       I have to accept what is instead of wishing for what isn't.  
       But then, if I did accept the "what is," and only that, I
       would have to leave him.  And now, I'm concerned that even
       if all the "if onlys" suddenly and magically came to be, it
       would be too late, that the poverty of our relationship,
       the years of struggling to hold things together have worn
       me out and left the part of me that could respond to the
       "newness" of that rejuvenated relationship ossified for
       good.
            I suddenly thought of another reason I have to have
       stuck with this marriage and worked at it so long and hard.  
       Those dish drying sessions with my mother.  One of the
       ethos things she handed me more than once - Divorce is out
       of the question.  Divorce simply is not on.  One keeps the
       vows one makes.  One keeps one's family together.  Family
       is everythng.  I look back on it now and realize that since
       my parents didn't have a marriage made in heaven, she must
       have thought about getting divorced herself and turned off
       the switch of that thought at once, perhaps because of what
       her mother told her when they were doing the dishes.  It
       seems to me now that she had to have been trying to con-
       vince herself while she was trying to convince me.  So what
       am I sitting here working to convince myself of?  To
       divorce or not to divorce, that is the question?  It is a
       far far better thing I do by staying than by going?  Right
       now, I don't have answers to any of that.
        There really are good things about Don, of course.
       You knew that. You helped me see that when I got tunnel
       vision.  We do have good times and he can be sensitive and
       caring.  "If only" he were that way all the time, or even
       much of the time.   Because it seems that even more often,
       he's trying to tear a strip off me, trying to put me down
       about anything and everything.  I say trying to because
       it's not nearly as easy for him to do that to me as it used
       to be.  I know now, and I wish it hadn't taken me until
       this past year or so to figure it out, that it's very
       rarely me he's angry with when he's being "that way," as I
       used to call it.  Abusive is what I can call it now.  It's
       something else, something in him that has nothing to do
       with me.  He's angry and frustrated with work, or with him-
       self and he pushes that all on to me because it's easier to
       be mad at me than to look deep into himself for the causes.  
       That's a painful and difficult thing to do and it means
       accepting responsibility for the way you are.  It's so much
       easier to blame someone else for your own unhappiness.  I
       don't intend to make it easy for him to do that any more.  
       I am not responsible for his happiness.  I cannot make him
       happy - No one can do that for anyone else. - but he thinks
       I should be able to so he blames me because he's not.  I
       won't accept that any more.  And I don't deserve the way he
       treats me when he gets into that mode. No one deserves that
       sort of trweatment.  Besides, his ranting about what a ter-
       rible wife and mother I am takes too much out of me, makes
       me doubt myself too much because all too often there's at
       least a grain of truth in what he's saying.  I have to
       separate that one grain from a whole lot of chaff and let
       the chaff blow away in the wind.  I will take responsibil-
       ity for that grain because it's true, but not for the rest.  
       It makes such a difference when I can do that, but it also
       takes a phenomenal amount of energy.  Especially because he
       doesn't like it when I do.  He wants to fight!  "When we
       fight," says he, "at least I know you care."  My God ...  
       As I said, it takes energy and there are times when my bat-
       tery feels so flat.  Maybe that's another reason I don't
       leave him.  I simply haven't the energy.
             Don and I were so close when we were courting and
       first married.  On top of everything else, we were friends.  
       He was fun, bright, with such a quick mind.   We talked a
       lot, laughed a lot, went to the movies, partied with
       friends.  Played a lot of charades which got hilarious at
       times.  It's too bad no one plays that any more. In grad
       school, none of us had any money to go anywhere but that
       didn't seem to matter.  It was always BYOB and share food.  
       We all shared everything.  Took care of each others chil-
       dren.  Helped each other out when there was a problem.  
       Rejoiced at the birth of babies.  Celebrated each other's
       successes.  I suddenly realize how much I miss that sense
       of community, of Don and I being part of all that mutual
       support.  Where did it all go?  And how do I get it back?
        I wonder if Max really will call.  I'm not counting on
       it.  But if he does, I wonder what he'll think of Don and
       what Don will think of him.
        I had a dream about Max the other night.  It was a
       physical dream, if you know what I mean, and that scares
       me.  If that sort of thing were even hinted at, I couldn't
       see him any more.  Unfaithfulness isn't in my personal lex-
       icon.  I've always said it's the height of selfish
       self-indulgence.  But I don't want to stop seeing him, if
       he ever does call again, and the strength of wanting to see
       him makes it all even scarier.  What's happening to me?



                                               March 8th, l986

      Dear Maggie,
        No call from Max.  Four weeks and he said 6 to 8, but
       I am becoming more and more convinced that he won't call
       and that it will be just as well if he doesn't.  The
       thought of seeing him again is scary.  I'm not sure why.  
       But if it's scary, maybe I ought to trust that and not see
       him again.


                                            March 9th, 1986

       Dear Maggie,

        It's as if Max heard what I wrote yesterday.  He
       called today.  It was wonderful to hear his voice.  Took
       all the "scary" away because he sounded just the same. He
       didn't have much time to talk, just told me that he's com-
       ing to town next Tuesday.  He can't have us for dinner this
       time, but could we have a late lunch.  His plane gets in at
       11.  Glad to, said I.  I'm even going to pick him up at the
       airport.
        Don is tied up with a planning conference Tuesday and
       Wednesday, so that's not an issue.  Thank God.  I can relax
       and enjoy a fun lunch.



                                           March 13th, 1986

       Oh, Maggie, what am I doing?  I'm so happy, happier than
       I've been in a long time but I'm scared, too, and I'm not
       sure why.  Max is the soul of propriety.
           Because Don was tied up, I didn't even mention Max to
       him.  I feel odd about that.  Sort of vengeful of me
       because he's been so difficult lately.  When I start to
       talk to him about my day, he either grunts along to pretend
       he's listening while he's really reading the paper, or he
       changes the subject to tell me long winded convoluted sto-
       ries about what is going on with him, even insisting on
       repeating the whole history of the thing when I already
       know it.  Who needs that?  It's so demeaning, as if I never
       listen to what he says.  So I just don't tell him anything
       about my life any more.  Haven't for several years.
        It turns out that Max's meeting wasn't until dinner so
       we had the whole glorious afternoon.  He wanted to see
       something of the countryside so I drove him down to the Old
       Shakopee Inn for lunch.  I love it there.  It's a bit
       shabby but the food is good and the service excellent.  We
       were able to sit by the window and watch the ducks and one
       white goose which had come in from God alone knows where.
            He had brought pictures of Frank and Henny and their
       families, and his own.  Henny really does look just like
       his father, but not so tired.  I would have recognized
       Frank anywhere.  His own family ... handsome children, and
       his wife is very attractive.  Why does that upset me?
       Silly.  When I commented on that, he just looked at me then
       gave a little nod.
            It's odd.  He talks about his children, Frank and
       Henny, things that happen that he can talk about, espe-
       cially people.  Not names.  Just funny things that happen.  
       And he talks about what he thinks about what is going on in
       the world.  But not about his wife.  Oh, I know what she
       does and that she's good at it.  How they met, because I
       asked.  But his answer was brief and he changed the sub-
       ject.  And with his reaction to my comment about the pic-
       ture, I think it's not something he wants to talk about.  I
       don't know why but I don't want to ask.
        It was a very happy lunch all the same.  So relaxed
       and easy, except briefly when I brought up his wife.
            I'm at the office tomorrow but will go in early and
       take off early take enough to get him to his 4:30 PM plane.




                                               March 14th, 1986

       Oh, Maggie, what is happening to me?  I got to the hotel
       about 3 PM and when he wasn't in the lobby, I called his
       room.  He asked me to come up for a moment.  He was almost
       done reorganizing the slides he had brought for a presenta-
       tion he had to make the next day in another city.  So up I
       went.  When I got there, he was packing.  We chatted while
       he finished, then he gathered up his things and stood at
       the door suitcase on the floor, and looked around. I looked
       around, too, though I wasn't sure what I thought I'd see,
       except an ordinary enough hotel room.  He sighed.  I turned
       around and bumped into him as he was reaching for the
       doorknob.  I stepped back and overbalanced.  He caught me
       and we stood there looking at each other.  It was electric,
       as if a current was flowing.  I couldn't move away.  His
       eyes were so blue and he looked ...  How can I say it?
       Troubled?  Anguished? All I can tell you is that as long as
       I live I will never forget his expression.  We seemed to
       stand there forever.  Then he groaned and put his arms all
       the way around me and he was kissing me hard.  And I was
       kissing him back.  Oh, yes, I was.  My arms were around him
       as hard as his were around me.  I was drunk with the feel
       and smell of him.  It was quite wonderful.  When he finally
       lifted his head, all I could do was lean against him.  I
       was dizzy and shaking.  And I wanted him.  God help me, I
       really wanted him.  That bed was right there and I wanted
       to be in it with him.  I was aching to be in it with him.  
       All my female apparatus was more than ready to be in it
       with him.  And I could feel him, that he was ready, too.  I
       pulled back and looked up at him.  "You're crying."  He
       sounded surprised.  He held my face in his hands and looked
       at me intently.  "Don't cry."
        "I know," I said.  "It's not for crying.  It's just
      ..."  I could only shake my head.
        "Plane time," he said and let me go.  Then he turned
      and opened the door.  His hand was shaking.
        We didn't say much on the way to the airport.  I don't
       think either of us knew what to say.
             After he got his bag out of the back seat, he leaned
       back in and looked at me hard.  "I will be back in three
       weeks or so and I want to see you then.  May I call?"
        "Yes," I said, but it was such a squawk that I had to
       clear my throat and say it again.  But it was all I could
       say.  He nodded, then he shut the door and was gone.
        Oh, Maggie, what am I getting into.  I shall have to
       think about this very hard.



                                               March 15th, 1986

            I haven't been thinking about anything else, if you
       can call what I do thinking.  There aren't many words.                
       More visual and physical memory.  My body remembers him and
       aches for him and wants him.  I don't know what to do.  I
       told him I wanted him to call and I do.  But I'm scared.  
       An affair is the height of selfish self-indulgence.  I've
       always said that and it's true.  And look what __________'s
       infidelity did to Penny and they weren't even married.  Don
       and I have been married for more than 25 years.  I know Don
       loves me as best he can but living with him isn't easy and
       it's such a lonely business.  I can't share myself with
       him.  Not in any way.  Show him my need - for almost anyth-
       ing - and he gets angry because he can't cope with it.  I
       am hurting and that upsets him because he cares, because he
       does love me in his way.  So he gets angry with me as the
       agent of his upset.  I know I've said this before but it's
       still true.  And this way of being loved is very high cost.  
       How do I afford it?  It takes so much energy, energy I seem
       to have less and less of.  Except when I'm with Max.  Oh,
       God.   Max recharges my batteries.  He really does.  He
       approves of me.  Unequivocally.  He really does.  He has
       made that abundantly clear.  And now he's made it clear
       that he wants me.  I just can't let that happen.  But when
       I'm with him, I'm happier than I have been in ages and
       ages.  And there is something else.
            Part of my ossification has been physical.  It's
       something I haven't written about and certainly something I
       never talked to even you about.  I can't react to Don phys-
       ically.  Nothing happens.  I don't mean nothing happens
       exactly.  I can still perform, but I don't feel anything.  
       That part of me has been dead.  Don knows that and it's
       only made him worse.  Now he says that I'm frigid and
       always have been.  That's not true. It was wonderful with
       Don for a long time, but then he turned nasty, even about
       that.  He said I didn't do it right, that I didn't know how
       to please a man, that I never really did.  You certainly
       couldn't tell it by the amount he wanted.
            One of those terrible "tapes" from my mother (as they
       call that sort of thing in psycho-babble these days.  Hate
       that but it is very expressive.) those dishwashing discus-
       sions.  "Always make yourself available to your husband
       when he wants you.  Always."  I bought into it.  I tried to
       do everything to please him.  It was humiliating.  I would
       cry and tell him that he had to accept what I could offer
       him because if he didn't, gradually I would be able to give
       him less and less.  When he still kept at me, gradually I
       felt less and less until I felt nothing at all, except,
       when he wants to touch me, anger and self-loathing
       all it has brought me is anger and
       and self-loathing and physical ossification.  A good way to
       ossification.  A good way to punish Don along with myself,
       wouldn't you say?  And it works, says she sarcastically.  
       He's even angrier, even more abusive.  But finally, finally
       I have figured out that no one deserves to be talked to
       that way, which means I don't deserve to be talked to that
       way.  And so, when he starts in, I go into another bedroom,
       one that has a lock on the door and I'm grateful that there
       is one in the house.
       less and less until, finally I felt nothing.  those dish
       washing discussions.  As if it some kind of right.  And
       they - the nameless "they" - talked about marital rights of
       husbands.  The right of his access to his wife's body.  I
       bought into that.  So stupid.  What about self-respect? And
       respect for the relationship, especially that part of the
       relationship.  I became a goddamn martyr.  A seductive
       thing, martyrdom.  One becomes so self-righteous.  You feel
       superior even while you're being humiliated because you're
       doing your "duty,' despite everything.  What a lovely
       thought and I didn't think it until just this minute.  It's
       one thing to be humiliated by someone else.  It's another
       thing to humiliate yourself - the greatest humiliation of
       all.  The thought makes me sick.







             So what is Max?  Part of getting back a Don?
             I thought that part of me had died.  That's a large
       part of why what happened in that hotel room with Max was
       so electric.  I haven't ossified.  The female in me isn't
       dead.  It had just retreated from a place that had become
       far too dangerous.  It - "she" - got wounded every time she
       tried to enter that arena so she just refused to enter it
       any more.
        And now that she's back out of wherever she was, she's
       clamoring to stay out.  But it's not Don she wants, it's
       Max and what am I going to do about it?  Let her have her
       way?  Let her batteries get charged, let myself be more
       whole?  But if I do, what would I think about myself then?
       Adultery is something I never thought I could be a party
       to.  It's an anathema.
        And what if all this agony is for nothing.  What if,
       when he comes, we have a nice talk and he tells me that
       he's sorry?  That he didn't mean for that to happen, that
       is was all a mistake.  How would I survive that?  How would
       "she?"  But what about his wife?  What if he has done this
       before, maybe even many times before?  I don't think so but
       how can I know?  I've never been even on the edges of any-
       thing like this before.  And if he was that way and I
       didn't know and I became just another notch on his gun
       handle, how would I feel then?   The thought makes me sick.


        This is stuff for later.


            The man at the opera.  He took up his whole seat and a
       little more, just sat there, clutching his coat to his
       chest, looking straight ahead at the stage though the cur-
       tain wasn't up yet, as if his wife wasn't there.  He had a
       big jade ring on his left ring finger that looked like a
       flared toilet plunger.  Stuck way up. How ugly, thought I,
       and how utterly inconvenient.  It had to get in the way of
       everything except sitting in his seat with his coat
       clutched to his chest.  There was a small about his, of
       clothes that had been in the attic too long.  He said
       nothing until the end, then he was the first on his feel,
       clapping around his coat and yelling "Bravo."
        The basso simply walked down the aisle with our lead
       tenor.  An attractive young oriental man, only partially
       folded eyelid, a red scrape on the left side of his chin
       that turned out to be a birth mark.  Moved well, wearing an
       A2 jacket that suited him.  He was a little wary, serious,
       maybe a little tired.  We all knew what he was, that he was
       an opera singer and that he was really good but there was
       no sense of that, none of that arrogant preening.  He had a
       performance that afternoon so he didn't warm up.  I applaud
       that.  Hate warm-ups.  Think we could do as well running
       through the unfamiliar hymns, or even some of the familiar
       hymns.  But then we rehearsed what he was to do, he opened
       his mouth and out came this voice.  It was an entity, that
       voice.  Power.  Effortless power, though, as if to make you
       wonder what he could do if he really tried.  And it raised
       the hackles on the back of my neck.
        After rehearsal it was so easy.  He was a comfortable
       easy sort of person, without that restless, demanding "See
       me!  See me!"  It was unnecessary.  He would be seen.  And
       heard.




            This a letter she would write Max.  The struggle bet-
       ween her relationship with him and her religious beliefs is
       resolving.
       My darling Max,
            The minister's sermon this morning ...  It was about
       "When does life begin?"   He said it was when you grab onto
       it and decide to live it.   When you let it open itself to
       you and you jump in.  It made me realize that my life had
       ground down to almost mere existence before you came into
       it.  There was so little joy in it.  Part of me had with-
       ered and then you came along.  Somehow, though I didn't
       know, you knew that that part of me was there, the female
       part.  It wasn't as if you waved a magic wand and everyth-
       ing was ecstatic.  It was a gradual process.  I trusted
       you and so did "she".  And, for you, she started coming out
       of the closet.  It was scary and bewildering and I resisted
       even though I didn't want to because it was "wrong."  But,
       oh, my dear, it was so utterly right.  Since you, I have
       opened up and with you I am the best me I know how to be.  
       All of a piece, as my mother used to say, for the first
       time since my early twenties when I didn't really know who
       I was anyway.  There is so much joy and so much living and
       the living is so full of life.  I did not know what true
       intimacy was until you.  You are my love, my wildly sexy
       incredible lover, my dearest friend and my best playmate.  
       I adore you


      Letter from Max during a long and frustrating time when they
      had to be apart.
        Tried to call you this morning, the minute I got to
       the office but all I got was busy-busy-busy.  I assume your
       phone is out again because that is what happened yesterday
       when your phone went dead.  All I got was a busy signal.  I
       know you will call when you can but I wish to hell it was
       right now. You said you can use your fax phone.  Why don't
       you, or is that line out, too?  I realize you may not be
      home today but to call into a dead phone is frustrating.
        Later - Your line is still busy.  This is what ticks
       me off.  If I didn't care, UI wouldn't call - but no - I
       call every half hour until it's not wise to call any more.            
      Why do I allow myself to get this miserable?
        I suppose I could go and check the post office box.
       There was no leter yesterday but that figures when you
       think about the weekend.  I have to expect no letter days.
        I did erase the tape.  I had it on my desk running on
       record.  I rewound it and for the heck of it ran it through
       on "play", just to make sure.  About half way through the
       phone rang and tehre I was talking to you as we talk some-
       times, about the things we do and the things we want to do
       right now.  The entire tape has been erased and checked.
        Your line is still busy.  More frustration.  I seem
       to use that word a lot lately.

        Later:  I stopped at the P.O. on the way back from
      lunch and tehre were two wonderful letters from you.
        If it weere possible - I want to be with you 24 hours
       a day, night and day, 7 days a week, day in and day out,
       month after month.  I want to go to bed at night and hold
       you.  I want to be awakened during the night because you
       rolled over. I want to have breakfast - lunch - dinner
       (supper) with you.  I want to share my life with you.  And
      I will continue to tell you this over and over again.
        We finally talked.  I understood that you couldn't
       say the things you wanted to say, not with the phone repair
      man standing in the hall.   I miss you.  I want you.  I need
       you.  I adore you.
        I wish we could go skiing together, eventhough it
       would be hard to fuck with all those clothes on.  My cock
       just isn't that long.
        I've told you a little about Joe, my counterpart two
       floors down.  It seems he's having problems with a gall
       stone which they are finally going to do something about.  
       He hopes they can just zap it.  I told him that the way
       they do that is to put one electrode up his cock and the
       other one down his nose.  Then he stands on wet concrete
       while they turn on the juice.  I always like to be helpful
       and informative.
        Full moon last night but a cloudty day today.  Snow
       and rain predicted for Friday and Saturday.  Clearing a bit
       on Sunday when I fly out.  I wish you could meet me at the
       pane and that I could march off with a whole marching band.           
       You would - and will - be a most welcome sight.
            I love you.
LAYOUT 000
:ê  B 
  
*®U   <
_        ˙ \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
