



                                           September 10th, 1985
 	
 Dear Maggie,

 	It's the middle of the night and I can't sleep.
 	Eight days ago I was at your funeral.
 	1 hate that.  You and I were going to have adjoining rooms
 in "the home" when we got to doddering old age so we could talk
 and laugh and give the nurses a bad time.  Now we can't do that.  
 I hate that.  I even hate you because you are the best friend
 I've ever had and you've gone off and left me.  I know that's not
 logical because you didn't want to die.  You didn't want the
 plane you were on to fly full bore into the side of that moun-
 tain.
 	You were smashed to pieces, crushed so completely into your
 college friend Lucy who was sitting next to you that part of you
 went home with her and part of her came home with you to be cre-
 mated and put into that elegant jewel case of an urn.
 	That urn was too small.  It couldn't possibly hold you.  
 Nothing that small could.   I kept reminding myself that it
 could, that the essence of you wasn't there at all.  It was just
 what was left that they had vaporized and put into that little
 box.  It didn't help.
 	It was too sudden.  I didn't get to see you to say good-bye,
 to have time to get used to the idea that you wouldn't be here
 any more.  Your sister called me on the phone.  It was as if a
 giant had taken a huge swing with a two by four and hit me in the
 stomach.  I couldn't talk.  I could barely breathe.  I couldn't
 even feel anything.
 	I still couldn't feel anything when I stood beside your
 grave and watched Harvey kneel down and put your urn into that
 copper box in the ground.  He did it himself.  Your sons stood
 tall with tears streaming down their faces.  Your sister looked
 so old.  And your mother ...  The whole family was there, except
 for you.  Even your two uncles and their wives.  Your nephew and
 niece and some of your cousins I had never seen before.  Other
 than Don and I and our four, it was just family at the grave
 side.  But then, you were family, the sister I never had.  I
 couldn't not be there, but I hated it.   I also couldn't believe
 it was real.
 	It didn't help that it was a beautiful day.  The trees were
 a riot of color.  Not a cloud to be seen.  The sky should have
 been black with mourning, streaming tears, a rage of thunder and
 lightening.  Maybe then I could have cried and raged with it.  
 Instead I felt as if I were outside myself, watching everything,
 including me.  I still feel that way.
 	That afternoon there was a superb memorial service.  Your
 mother asked me to read scripture.  Everyone said how well I had
 read it and asked how I had managed.   It was easy.  It wasn't
 really me.  It was that person apart, the one who was watching
 everything who read it.
 	That's the person who's writing you now.  And why am I writ-
 ing you now anyway?  It's not a letter you can ever read.  Maybe
 because somewhere deep inside I do know you're dead and that this
 is the only way I can still talk to you.   Maybe because I need
 to have life be real again, even if it means your death.  I can't
 go on like this.



 	                              September 11th, 1985

 	Dear Maggie,

 	It's night again and everyone is in bed but me.
 	I was right to write you last night.  When I was done I got
 out an envelope and wrote your name on it.  Silly.  But if you
 write a letter, you ought to send it.  But where?  I didn't know.
 I sat there looking at your name and suddenly I was in the depth
 of a terrible blackness, crying as if there were no end to tears.  
 As awful as it was, it was a relief.  When I was finally done, I
 fell into bed, and for the first time since your sister called, I
 slept for the rest of the night.
 	Don was kindness itself for the first few days, but then he
 got restless.  And today, when he knew I had been crying, he got
 angry and said some devastating things.  That I ought to pull
 myself together.  After all, you weren't really family and what
 sort of example was this for the children.  Insane.  Idiotic.  
 Hateful.  The children need to know that when someone you love
 dies, there is mourning.  There needs to be mourning.  And they
 do know that, because of my mother and my father.  They did their
 own mourning about that.  We did it together.
 	Don was the same way when each of them died - kind for a
 time, then tearing a strip off me for being upset - so I don't
 know why I expected him to be any different now.  Hope springs
 eternal?  But he's too self-involved to realize that it would be
 easier for us both if he just held me sometimes.  He wouldn't
 even have to say anything.  Just to show he cares.  What's sad is
 that he does care.  That's why he's angry.  He can't bear to see
 me in pain.  It causes him pain.  And so he gets upset with me as
 the agent of his pain.  I've even talked to him about it but it
 doesn't do any good.  I just wish I didn't feel so hateful toward
 him about it.  Life with him can be so difficult.
 	I don't want to be corrected all the time.  I want to be
 loved and understood and appreciated for who I am right now.  I
 don't want to feel so alone.  I want to feel close to my husband,
 to feel his support and to have him feel mine for him.  And I
 want him to meet me with good will.  What I want is to be half of
 a real couple, two people with mutual respect, with mutual wants
 and interests apart from the children.  I want him to be part of
 the family, to help us be a whole family, to be with us when he's
 home.
 	Just saying that makes me feel greedy.  I do have a reason-
 ably comfortable life, a large measure of personal freedom and
 four wonderful children.  They are such good souls.  It is wond-
 erful not only to love your children so much but to really like
 them as well.  But you cannot ask your children for emotional
 sustenance.  You can only accept with happiness and gratitude
 when they give it to you.
 	And the younger two, the ones who are still at home are giv-
 ing it to me in abundance.   Mark pats my back from time to time.  
 He doesn't know what to say but just that is more than enough.  
 Jenny is going through the terrible teens at the moment, but
 she's being very careful about her curfew and helps around the
 house without being asked.  She even keeps her room clean.  From
 her that's a real act of love.  Bless them both.  It's a real
 help.
 	Tomorrow Don leaves on another spate of travel.  He'll be
 gone for most of the next two weeks.  It's just as well.
 	I miss you desperately.  I miss the talk and the laughter,
 especially the laughter.  Lord, how we laughed.  And how we were
 going to laugh, when we got old, in adjoining rooms in "the
 home."  We were going to laugh and talk and give the nurses a bad
 time.  Now that's gone.  There's not you to laugh with and talk
 to and there never will be again.  Who else will I talk to the
 way we talked.  That sort of trust is hard for me to come by. I
 even understand why.  It was bred into me.  "You are the child of
 a minister," my mother told me.  It was her litany.  "You are not
 to repeat what you hear about anyone spoken of in this house.  
 You are not to discuss the problems of this house outside it ..."
 I don't have the exact words for the last part.  The import was
 that I shouldn't discuss problems that occurred in the house
 because my father's parishioners were not to know that he wasn't
 perfect.  Also, because I was Christian, I was on this earth to
 serve others.  Not to be served.  Therefore I was to become a
 good listener and listen to other people's problems, but never
 ever was I to bother them with my own.  Can you imagine how that
 distanced me from other people? Can you imagine how much trouble
 that caused in my marriage?  How out of proportion things got,
 especially early on, simply because I couldn't talk about any of
 it? Even something as simple as Don's refusing to take out the
 garbage. It sounds so stupid now, but we were still into that
 role playing business in those days.  There were jobs that were a
 woman's and there were jobs that were a man's and, as far as I
 knew, it was a man's job to take out the garbage.  We had been
 married about 6 months.  Don was getting his PhD and we were liv-
 ing in graduate housing.  Our next door neighbor was also a
 minister's daughter, so I felt she would know "the rules." Even
 so, I remember that I was actually sweating as I said to her, "He
 absolutely will not take out the garbage or do much of anything
 to clean up after himself." She laughed and said, "Jeff won't
 either and isn't it a pain." What a relief.  I wasn't a pariah
 for saying so.  The ground had not opened up.  I had not fallen
 into a bottomless abyss.  And I wasn't the only one dealing with
 this sort of thing. I just wish that it hadn't taken me another
 10 years, when I got to know you, to learn that I really could
 talk to someone about the things of substance in my life.
 	You are gone.  There is a void and I'm going to have to do
 fill it somehow.  I know that.  I'm just not sure what it is.


 	                                 September 20th, 1985

 Dear Maggie,

 	For some reason, I keep thinking about the first time I
 heard the world was coming to an end.  It's been coming back at
 the oddest times.  It was the spring of 1945.  I was 9 years old,
 soon to be ten.  The war in Europe was almost over.  Everyone
 knew it wouldn't be long.  Then we would concentrate on Japan and
 defeat her as well, but even I knew it wouldn't be easy.  We all
 knew that the Japanese fought to the death, and would even more
 so when their homeland was invaded.  As much as I had been taught
 to hate what the Japanese were then, I couldn't blame them for
 that.  Americans would fight to the death if we were invaded,
 too.  But the Japanese sent their young men on suicide flights
 against our navy, and those young men went willingly.  It was
 considered an honor to die for the emperor.  We thought that was
 crazy but it was also scary.
 	Then the atom bomb appeared and that changed everything.
 	But I didn't know anything about that warm spring day while
 we waited for the world to end. It was a warm day, a wonderfully
 balmy warmth that only spring can bring.  The leaves were still
 young and there was mist in the air.  I was sitting across the
 street on the Ehrenfeldt's front steps with Frank and Henny.  
 They were worn wooden steps that matched their worn wooden porch.  
 When you have six children in a house that you're renting from a
 landlady who never wants to fix anything, everything is bound to
 be worn.  Akron was booming. All the rubber factories ran full
 blast 24 hours a day.  You could smell the curing rubber on hot
 summer nights when the wind was right and in the winter the snow
 would get sooty.
 	Mr. Ehrenfeldt would come home from whatever shift he was
 working and sit in an old wooden rocking chair on that porch,
 reading the paper.  When he was there, we knew not to bother him
 so we'd sit on our front porch, so I know he wasn't there.
 	But their older brother Max did sit with us for a while.  
 Max was 17 and disgusted because when he had turned 16, his par-
 ents wouldn't sign for him to go into the Army Air Corps.  He
 wanted to be a fighter pilot so he could kill German fighter
 pilots.  A German fighter pilot had killed his oldest brother
 Richie who had been a tail gunner in a B-17.  Richie was 19 when
 he died.  That left five Ehrenfeldt children - the oldest two who
 were girls, and then the three boys.  When he was 19 Max went to
 West Point.  We were all very proud of him.
 	It's sad that I have so little memory of Richie.  He had
 enlisted the day after Pearl Harbor, went in early in January and
 came home on leave in late March.  We moved in that April and
 Richie left for the war few days later.  He never came home.
 	I don't know if it's Richie I remember or just the picture
 of him taken with his father that stood on the sideboard in the
 dining-room. He was tall, lean, saturnine looking and very
 impressive in his uniform.  He went off the same day the picture
 was taken and he never came home.  His bomber blew up in the air.  
 Of course my world didn't come to an end that day, which was both
 a relief and an anti-climax.  We all simply went home for dinner.  
 When I told my father about it, he laughed.
 	Oh, dear.   Of course.  I see. Even though Richie died, the
 Ehrenfeldt's world didn't end.  It changed irrevocably but it
 didn't end. Mother died three years ago and my world didn't end.  
 Dad died two years ago and I am still here.  Now you have died.  
 The world still hasn't ended though there are times when I almost
 wish it would.  I am so tired.  But I can't quit, because of the
 children.  I love them so.  They didn't ask to be born and they
 still need a mother, especially the two at home.  There is one
 good thing about writing this to you now.  It's something I would
 never say out loud, even to you, and I need to acknowledge it.  
 And because I see it now, I'm going to have to deal with it some-
 how.
 	I have been sleeping.  Probably too much.  The hardest part
 of the day is waking up.  Everything seems fine, then wham, the
 realization comes all over again and it's as if I'm pinned to the
 floor by a ten ton weight.  But even sleep isn't always an
 escape.  I had a dream last night, the first one in a long time.
 I was in Hawaii.  The helicopter ride I told you about, over the
 volcano on Big Island while it was still active.  It was a scene
 from hell.  A vast, cracked, black wasteland, looking for all the
 world like an asphalt paving company run amok.  Then we were
 closer and the heat was intense. Flames roared out of the side of
 a black lava cone, spewing sulfur stink and even more heat into
 the air.  Not far away, there was a lake of grey liquid lava,
 that was molten red around the rim.  That redness was spitting
 toward the sky like an erratic fountain, some falling back into
 the lake, the rest onto rim around it, making that rim grow
 higher even as I watched.  Just south of that was what they call
 a window, where the hardened lava crust had fallen in on itself,
 exposing a hideous lava river running underneath.  It was red at
 the very edges, fading to orange, to yellow, then, in the center,
 where it was running at a frightening speed, dead white.  I could
 see it flow, see the power of it even as it disappeared back
 under the crust only to flow out again around the lower edge of
 the flow in red hot fingers that exploded eucalyptus trees and
 consumed everything in its way, burning it to nothing in a flash.
 	Then, as we flew back over that terrible river, the heli-
 copter banked, the big side window evaporated, and I fell out,
 twisting and turning, fighting the heat and stink, falling toward
 the hideous window below and the white hot death that flowed
 beneath it.
 	I woke up before I hit, shaking and crying and soaked in
 sweat.  I am in this alone and there is no net.



 	                                        October 12, 1985

 Dear Maggie,

 	Writing about the Ehrenfeldts in my last letter brought back
 so many memories, but it also made me realize that growing up is
 one part of our lives that we never talked about very much.  Of
 course there was more than enough to talk about with marriage and
 family and what was happening every day.  But even when we did
 talk about it, I never talked about the Ehrenfeldts.  That's odd,
 because though I couldn't have put these words to it at the time,
 Frank and Henny were like family to me.  So why didn't I talk
 about them?  When I thought about that, I realized I hadn't
 talked about them to anyone.
 	I lived in a working class neighborhood but because of the
 vagaries of where the school district line was drawn - right down
 the middle of our street - I went to school with the children of
 "social elite" of Akron.  So I lived in two separate worlds and
 they didn't mix.  In fact, they didn't mix so much that I knew
 not to talk about one to the other.   How sad that I never talked
 to you about any of this.  They were - and undoubtedly are -
 wonderful people and there are some stories you'd love.
 	As a child, I lived and operated in both those worlds but I
 see now that I didn't really belong in either one.  At school
 there were a lot of social that had to be played. Who was popu-
 lar, how to be "with" those who were, and how to be popular your-
 self.  I learned to play those games fairly well, but I was never
 really comfortable with any of it.  It wasn't the sort of thing
 you were comfortable with either.  I think it's part of why we
 understood each other almost at once.  Anyway, you would have
 understood why I was far happier at home with Frank and Henny
 where there was none of that.  We were all simply friends. No
 games.  Friends.  Their house was my house and mine theirs, their
 friends were mine and we were inseparable.  There were no girls
 my age in the neighborhood and I didn't seem to miss that.  	
 Until he went off to West Point, their older brother Max was part
 of that, too.
 	With Max it was feast or famine.  He either had remarkable
 patience with us or none at all.  I remember one day when I was 6
 or 7, pestering him to teach me the Boy Scout knots he was work-
 ing on.  He did show me and I was left on the porch, tied to his
 father's wooden rocking chair, far too humiliated even to yell.  
 They must have been very good knots because when Frank found me,
 he had a terrible time getting them undone.  I was far too embar-
 rassed to tell anyone, and besides, I never would have done
 anything to get Max in trouble.  I adored Max.  We all did,
 though, of course we never told him that.  We never even told
 ourselves that, but it was something we all knew.
 	He taught us about football and soft ball and the fact that
 I was a girl never seemed to faze him.  I supposed he simply
 didn't notice.  But he did notice when I was 19.
 	After West Point, Max went into the Air Force and he did
 become a fighter pilot.  He even had his own war, in Korea.  His
 family moved out of the neighborhood to the other side of town,
 into a house they had bought, when I was 14.  We moved the fol-
 lowing year, so when I finally Max again, I was 19 and hadn't
 seen any of the Ehrenfeldts for almost five years.
 	I was home from college on Easter break and ran into him
 downtown, coming out of O'Niel's department store.  My heart
 nearly stopped.  He looked wonderful.  He wasn't conventionally
 handsome. He was something indefinable that was even better.  A
 long face, pale blue eyes, blonde wavy hair trimmed close, a nose
 that was hooked and slightly off-center because he broke it play-
 ing football, and when he smiled and his whole face crinkled
 together.  He's about 5'10", lean, but solid, with heavy bones.  
 Built for endurance, not speed.  And he moved so well.  He was
 the sort of man who has always appealed to me the most. I once
 followed someone built just like Max around the mall, just to
 watch him walk. Why didn't I marry a man like that?  I don't
 know.  It's odd how things work out sometimes.
 	That day, Max was as surprised to see me as I was to see him
 and, for a moment, just as tongue tied.  His leave was up the
 next day so there wasn't much time to talk.  Henny was in the
 Navy, on a destroyer.  Frank was in college, studying to be a
 high school shop teacher - mechanics.  Both doing well. His two
 sisters were married with a couple of children each.  Then he
 gave me the oddest look and said, "You're pretty."  He sounded
 surprised.  That flustered me into insensibility, so I'm not sure
 what we said after that.  But I certainly felt good about
 what-ever it was.
 	Writing all this really does bring back the most amazing
 memories.  When Mr. Ehrenfeldt came home after work, he always
 looked tired and never had much to say, at least not when I was
 around.  He was a big man, heavy set.  Henny has to be the most
 like him in that way. I went through the Goodyear factory, on a
 tour once and I thought of him.  It was hot - The heat had to
 have been almost unbearable in the summer. - and noisy and dan-
 gerous because there were no OSHA regulations to keep him from
 getting his hand caught in one of the machines.  And the smell.  
 It stuck in my clothes and my hair.  As I said, when the wind was
 right, you could smell rubber curing where we lived, on the other
 side of town.  And the soot.  In fact, one of the rituals of life
 - every morning, my mother would give me a clean handkerchief -
 that was, of course, before Kleenex - and I was expected to put
 it over my index finger and play chimney sweep in my nose, on
 both sides.  It always made two rough black circles on the hand-
 kerchief.  We sometimes had other ministers staying at the house
 when they came through town.  One of my two favorites was a hand-
 some black haired man from Minnesota named Ken Bjorklund.  I
 think part of his charm was that he always talked to me as if I
 were someone worth talking to.  The first time he came - I was 7
 - I solemnly demonstrated the morning nose ritual and showed him
 the results.  My mother was appalled, but he just shook his head,
 pulled out his own handkerchief, did the same thing and showed me
 his results which were, of course, far more impressive since his
 nose was a lot bigger.  Then he said, just as solemnly, that he
 thought doing that was a very good idea and he'd be sure to do it
 every morning.  Every time he came after that first visit, he
 would bring me a Laura Ingalls Wilder book and he came often
 enough so that I got all but the last book which my parents got
 me for Christmas.  I was really sorry that by the time Don and I
 moved to Minnesota he had retired and moved to Arizona.  It
 wasn't long afterward that I saw his obituary in the paper.  I
 wish I had made the effort to get hold of his address so I could
 have written his family, to tell them how fond I was of him.
 	I know all children have a special spot for people who made
 them feel appreciated, but maybe I did more than most because I
 didn't seem to be appreciated by very many adults, especially
 women.  That certainly wasn't the only time I appalled my mother.  
 I simply wasn't the kind of daughter she envisioned.  You and I
 talked about how she made that abundantly clear to me from time
 to time and then it was your turn to be appalled, on my behalf,
 and that was quite wonderful. You probably never knew how much
 that meant to me.
 	You remember how it was in the late 40s and through the 50s.  
 Girls were supposed to be decorative, obedient and quiet, to
 never talk about themselves, most especially not to boys.  A girl
 was to get a boy to talk about himself and what interested him so
 he would like her. So she would be popular.  Being popular was
 everything.  Seventeen magazine had just come out and they wrote
 all sorts of articles about how to be popular. And about how to
 look wonderful.  Looking wonderful was a large part of being pop-
 ular.  Of course I wanted to be popular.  I just didn't want to
 have to do what I was supposed to do to get there.  It didn't
 seem honest and it made me feel strange and not quite real.  But
 the message was so strong that everything Seventeen was talking
 about was what I should do and, beyond that, was what I should
 want to do, that I felt there was something wrong with me because
 I couldn't bring myself to do very much of it.  	I
 really did like people.  I liked talking to them and finding out
 about them and what they did, so that part was fine.  But added
 to that, I was bright, insatiably curious, physically tall and
 strong for my age and very well coordinated.  All of that was a
 problem.  A girl was never supposed to let a boy know that she
 was at least as bright as he was, and as far as athletic prowess
 went ...  Girls in high school had half court basketball, cheer
 leading and PE (exercises) and that was that.  I didn't just want
 to be a cheerleader at the boys' athletic events, I wanted to be
 right in there with them.  And in our neighborhood I was.  That's
 why I was so happy there.  When I was with the Ehrenfeldts life
 was fine.  None of that "girl stuff" worried them and I could be
 just who I was.   But by the time I had finished eight grade,
 they had gone and my parents decided I needed to go to a girls'
 school (perhaps to make a girl of me?).  Actually, as you know, I
 loved it there.  I could learn all I wanted to and ask all the
 questions I wanted to in class without worrying about letting
 boys know I was smart. And to add to that, they had a wonderful
 athletic program - all sorts of sports - with no boys in sight to
 realize how good I was at so much of it.  And there was time for
 boys on the weekend.  I knew even then how lucky I was.
 	I also knew that some of the things I day dreamed about
 doing were odd, especially for a girl, so I never talked about
 them, not even to Frank and Henny.  For instance, I understood
 Max Ehrenfeldt's disappointment at not being able to go to WWII.  
 Even before I was aware of what Richie Ehrenfeldt was doing, I
 wanted to be a tail gunner in a B-17.  I knew I was too young,
 and I was even marginally aware that because I was female that
 might not be possible.  But I wasn't absolutely sure that I
 couldn't because my father always told me that I could do anyth-
 ing I wanted to do in this life if I worked at it hard enough.  
 After Richie died, I wanted to do it even more, to shoot down the
 man who had killed him and made all the Ehrenfeldts so sad.
 	World War II was an experience children now can't really
 understand.  If you leave out Stalin and his purges, there was
 good on one side and evil on the other.  Besides, even Stalin had
 right on his side in that war since it was the Germans who
 invaded Russia and, in trying to conquer it, did unspeakable
 things to so much of the population.  We were fighting for the
 freedom of the world and we were positive we had God on our side.
 	I remember lying in my bed one night when I was 7, terror
 stricken that the Germans were going to land paratroopers on
 Akron and we would all be killed.  My father showed me maps and
 tried to explain the Atlantic Ocean, but what is distance to a 7
 year old?  The Atlantic Ocean was just an odd shape of blue on
 the map that looked far too small to me.
 	Later on I stopped feeling helpless because I was able to
 help fight the war myself.  Everyone helped, even children.  I
 remember pulling my red wagon around to collect for the scrap
 metal drive at school.  We were to get a certificate according to
 how much we brought in by weight.  I scoured the neighborhood and
 beyond with a friend named Paul and we agreed to split the weight
 because Paul's father couldn't take his half to school for him
 and my father would have to do it all.  It was one of the few
 times that my father really upset me because he didn't play fair.  
 I told him about the arrangement, but when we got it all to
 school to be weighed, he was having none of that.  "Where is Paul
 and where's his father?" he asked and insisted I get credit for
 all of it.  There was enough so that I got a silver certificate
 and had my picture taken with the other silver and the one gold
 certificate winners for the paper, but I was never happy about
 it.  I put the certificate away, and the picture, because I
 couldn't bear to look at them.  I can still see Paul's eyes look-
 ing at me with both disgust and accusation.  He made it even
 worse by not saying anything.  Even though I explained what hap-
 pened, it was a long time before we were friends again.  The
 father of the girl who got a gold certificate owned a lot of pro-
 perty and he brought in a whole fire escape for her.  Three sto-
 ries worth.  I thought she was a real show-off because she hadn't
 done a thing herself.  Now I wonder if she wasn't as embarrassed
 about her father as I was about mine.  And I know I was envious
 because if my father had found me a whole fire escape, there
 would have been more than enough certificates to go around.
 	I can only remember one scrap drive, but every fall we col-
 lected milk weed pods for kapok for life jackets and there were
 paper drives at least twice a year.  I worked really hard at
 those because it was girls against boys and which ever side won
 got to watch propaganda movies at lunch time.  That was exactly
 what they were, and we took them to heart.  How to tell Japanese
 from Chinese and how terrible both the Japanese and the Germans
 were.  They were systematically trying to instill hatred in chil-
 dren.  Amazing to think about that now.
 	I remember, close to the end of the war, worrying that there
 would be no more stories for the radio mystery programs.  What
 would Jack Armstrong, the All-American boy and cartoon strips,
 like Terry and the Pirates do?  They were all about catching
 spies and brave deeds of derring do against the enemy. What could
 life possibly be like if there weren't an enemy any more?  Where
 would the good stories come from?  (The Russians certainly took
 good care of that, didn't they.)
 	The war was an intense time and perhaps, with a child's
 remarkable self-centerdness, what I was really worried about was
 that something might be missing from life if there was nothing to
 fight for.  I liked being part of something that was far larger
 than I was, something that was important to everyone.  I was not
 only part of it, I was necessary to it.  Of course everyone was
 necessary, but I was aware that I was.  I was part of The War
 Effort.  Not only did I collect paper and scrap and kapok, but on
 Tuesday mornings when I wasn't in school, I would put a safety
 pin on the end of a cord and use that to pull the cord through
 the tunnel sewn for it in the top of a blue ditty bag, (They
 always seemed to be blue, so our church must have sewn for the
 Navy.) so the bag could be pulled shut.  I did that for bag after
 bag while the ladies of the church sat at their treadle sewing
 machines, sewing more bags and talking.  I also helped pack those
 bags with all sorts of things that were wanted by service men.  I
 can't remember what went in them except toothbrushes and small
 hotel soaps. Hotels were a real rarity in my life and those soaps
 fascinated me because they were exact miniatures of the big ones
 my mother bought at the store.
 	I helped my father weed our victory garden and ate far more
 than I wanted to of the rows and rows of broccoli he planted, one
 row planted each week, because he didn't realize that broccoli
 could be harvested more than once.  Every summer and into the
 fall we had broccoli morning, noon and night for what seems like
 months.  I didn't start liking broccoli until about ten years ago
 but I ate it because eating broccoli was part of the War Effort.  
 No one was to waste anything. I ate raw carrots because that was
 what night fighter pilots were said to eat to improve their night
 vision.  We even had Carrot Days once or twice when I was in the
 second grade.  I ate whatever I was given to eat, including parts
 of animals that I hadn't heard of before and, thank God, haven't
 seen since, so that steaks and roasts and ham and pork could be
 made into Spam or rations and sent overseas.  I cleaned tin cans
 and flattened them for what wasn't yet called recycling.  I took
 other cans of fat to the butcher who gave me either a blue or red
 disc for each one, extra food ration points which I took home to
 my mother very carefully, partly because that meant more ketchup
 which was also rationed because there was sugar in it.  I smoth-
 ered the broccoli in ketchup.  It was the only way I could get it
 down.
 	The whole country was in step and I was right along with it.  
 I was part of it.  I was important and I belonged.  So another
 part of what I must have been worried about was that when the war
 ended, life would never be that way again.  That I would never
 again belong in that way, never again be that important.  And
 that is true.  I've never again been that important to anyone or
 anything, except to my children when they were very young.
 	I read that again and I realize that of course a child's
 world is so small.  But then, I think, was it really that small?
 After all, I was part of a whole world, at least the whole world
 as I could conceive it.
 	Then I read it again and was appalled.  I've been sitting
 here writing this and feeling sorry for myself.  Thank God I have
 written my way into seeing that.  In some perverse way, your
 death and the letters that came out of it have given me something
 positive.  It's made me look at myself hard.  Right now.  And I
 see I can't go on this way.  I can't go on just existing in this
 life, just enduring and hoping for better things.  Things have to
 change.  My life has to change and I'm the only one who can do
 it.  No one can do it for me.  And that is the truth.  And the
 truth is a gift.  I can deal with the truth.
 	If you don't know the truth, it's like slogging through a
 sea of marshmallow fluff in hip boots.  The stuff moves right
 along with you and you never get anywhere.  But the truth sits
 there like a rock in the middle of the path.  I may not like it -
 and I certainly don't like the truth I'm seeing here - but it has
 dimension.  I can walk around it, or climb over it, or even  get
 some dynamite and blow it up.  I can deal with it.  It may take
 time to figure out how to deal it, but now that I see it, I'll
 find a way.
 	Other truths.  I don't want to be corrected all the time.  I
 want to be loved and understood and appreciated for who I am
 right now.  I don't want to feel so alone.  I want to feel close
 to my husband, for him to meet me with good will.  I want to be
 half of a real couple with mutual respect, with mutual wants and
 interests apart from the children.
 	Just saying that makes me feel greedy because I have so much
 already.  Enough money to live reasonably, a large measure of
 personal freedom and, best of all, four first class children.  
 They are such good souls.  It is wonderful not only to love your
 children so much but to really like them as well.  But you can't
 ask your children for emotional sustenance.  You can only accept
 with happiness and gratitude when they give it to you.
 	Oh, Maggie, even though I know that I have to do it myself,
 I wish you were here.  I feel so alone.  I miss you.  I miss
 talking and laughing and having you to care about and you to care
 about me.  And I miss what could have been.  We were going to
 have adjoining rooms in "the home" when we got to doddering old
 age so we could talk and laugh and give the nurses a bad time.  
 And now we can't.
 	Don is gone again. His schedule can be killing and at times
 I wonder how he can stand it.  But he seems to thrive.  It used
 to be painful to have him gone so much but now ...  Husbands do
 generate a lot of work.  The children require very little actual
 work except for laundry and dinner.  I find I like having time
 not only to pursue what interests me but time to myself.  I had
 to wait until I was almost over 40 to understand the value of
 solitude, but you always seemed to know.
 	I have been writing for ages but it's been good for me.  I
 see things so much more clearly.  Now I'm going to quit and get
 some things done around here.  And while I'm doing that, I'm
 going to think about how to change my life.


 	                                      November 20th, 1985

 Dear Maggie,
 	I've got a new job!  The first step in improving my life was
 a decision to quit free-lancing.  Free-lancing is really two
 jobs: finding the work, then doing it.  Finding the work was
 really getting to me.  It's so competitive.  And, when I really
 looked at it, I realized what a lonely business freelancing is,
 especially in advertising.  No office.  No co-workers to bounce
 things off.  Granted, the hours were flexible and the pay was
 good.  Perfect for raising children because I was able to be at
 home so much of the time.  But the time had definitely come for a
 change.
 	It's a whole different world being in an office and having
 the work come to me and having people to work with I enjoy.  It's
 three-quarter time which means I only need to go in one or two
 days a week and that's flexible.  The rest I can do at home.  
 Thank God for compatible computers.  It's the perfect compromise.
 	I do know how lucky I am, especially since I found this job
 so fast.  It was the first one I interviewed for.  An alumni
 magazine is a far cry from writing ad copy.  Of course it does
 advertise a college but the way they do it is a very different
 matter.  It's all very low key.  No hype, thank God.  I had had
 more than enough of hype.  It's odd, but it was only when I got
 away from advertising copy that I realized just how much too much
 I had had of hype.  This job is the perfect antidote.
 	I edit the columns sent in by the class secretaries.  Some
 are priceless.  Most of that is inadvertent and that has to be
 dealt with, but there is one woman with a real sense of humor.  I
 appreciate her and so does everyone else.   I clean up the
 columns, lay out the whole magazine, do interviews, research and
 write some of the articles.  And they are a wonderfully eclectic
 group of people.  All sorts and types.  Students and faculty.  
 And of course the alumni/ae.  All shapes and sizes and ages and
 types. From everywhere in the world and doing everything imagin-
 able.
 	The first interview I did was an archeology professor who
 had taken six students on a dig in London, of all places.  They
 have a law there that, when digging the foundation for a new
 building, if history is exposed, all progress is halted for a
 specified length of time, long enough to let the archaeologist in
 to salvage as much of the history that's there as they can.
 	I saw just such an excavation once when I was in London.  It
 was just up the hill from Fleet Street.  There was a huge hole in
 the ground where a sky scraper was going to be built.  It was
 surrounded by tall buildings which made the hole look even
 deeper.  The big machinery was gone, except for one crane, and
 the whole excavation looked like a beehive.  Old stone founda-
 tions in a surprisingly regular pattern lined both sides of what
 had to have been two narrow streets with an even narrower alley
 between.  The whole place was covered with people wearing grubby
 clothes who seemed to be treating even the ground they were work-
 ing on with tender loving care.  Most of them were hunkered down.  
 Some were digging with trowels, while others sifted the dirt from
 the trowels through special large flat sieves.  One person was
 using what looked like a paint brush on the ground, obviously not
 wanting to damage what he was uncovering.  Still others were
 standing over battered wooden tables - a slab of wood or an old
 door set on two saw horses - sorting through what those with the
 sieves had found.
 	Somehow the care with which they were working touched me.
 They valued what they would find and they valued the process of
 stripping the layers so they could find it.  The coarse work had
 been done for them by the excavators and God knows how much was
 destroyed before they realized what was there.  But now it was
 all caution and consideration  as they stripped off the final
 layers.
 	I talked to one of them briefly, stopped her as she was
 walking up the street.  Mainly medieval so far, she said.  Noth-
 ing terribly exceptional in that.  But then she pointed to a
 corner where I could see that the excavation was terraced and
 getting deeper.  That there were even more layers to be stripped.
 It was obvious that she was excited by that.  There was evidence
 of the Roman occupation.  Even that wasn't too unusual, not in
 London.  But in one area, there was something even deeper down,
 something that may well have predated the Romans.  This hill was
 safe from flooding, so people had been coming to this spot, first
 to camp, then to live, for millennia.  Hard work, she said.  
 Careful, exasperating work some times.  But in a place like this,
 the deeper we go, the more valuable the find.  Then there was a
 real smile.  Worth it in the end, she said, to hold ancient his-
 tory in your hand, to know that people had touched those things,
 used them hundreds if a thousand or more years before.  You're a
 romantic, I told her.  She just smiled, jerked her head to whip
 her hair back over her shoulder and said she had to go.
 	I listen to her all over again.  The deeper we go the more
 valuable the find.  But you have to be careful, considerate,
 while stripping off the layers or much will be destroyed.  It can
 be difficult, exasperating, even painful, but it is worth it in
 the end because you'll find what's really there.
 	What will I find with the digging into myself I seem to be
 doing?  More truth about who I am and why I do what I do?  And,
 if I get to the center of myself, or as close as is possible to
 the center, what will I find there?  Somehow that thought is
 scary.
 	Even so, it has to be done.  It's the things you don't know
 that push hidden buttons.  It's the messages that you have inter-
 nalized but cannot hear, that control your behavior in peculiar
 ways and make you irrational.
 	And on top of that, there are parts of me ...  Sometimes I
 feel as if parts of me have fossilized and I need to know how far
 the ossification has gone.  Is it all the way through or is just
 that those parts are still alive somewhere deep inside a hard
 shell?  And if I find it's all the way through, how will I deal
 with that?  I don't know.  That's part of what's scary.  But I
 can't afford to wait much longer, because if I'm lucky and it is
 just a shell, the shell might be getting thicker and it might
 keep on getting thicker until that part really did ossify and
 died for good and all.  So I'm back again at the need for the
 truth.  Who said, "Know the truth and the truth shall make you
 free?" I don't know, but the longer I live and the more truth I
 know, the more true that gets.  I am so sick and tired carrying
 around chains.
 	But how to go about finding out?  Take a hammer and chisel,
 I suppose, and work with caution.  I just wish I had someone who
 knew how to use a brush.






 	                                  December 12th, 1985

 Dear Maggie,
      Christmas is coming.  You know I've always been one of those
 disgusting early shoppers while you, bless you, left it all to
 the last minute.   I'm making Christmas cookies and there seems
 to be some comfort in doing that.  The comfort of the familiar?
 Besides, the children were appalled when I said I might not.  I'm
 glad I did.
 	Jennie is coming home for the holidays.  I'm so glad.              
 Of course it would be a joy in any event to have her home.  But
 I'm glad she's coming because she's heartbroken and needs all the
 love we have to give her.  She and Terry have broken up after
 almost three years of living together and she didn't want to face
 Christmas alone, even in her beloved San Francisco.  It is all so
 sad.  You remember what mixed feelings I had when they moved in
 together. This business of marriage without a marriage, - and
 that's what it is - didn't seem right somehow.  A non-commitment
 commitment.  And now they have a non-divorce dovorce which seems
 to me to be no less painful.  She won't even have a sense of
 closure of a set of papers from the court that might dignify the
 dissolution of their marriage in a way.
      I remember thinking, at the time, that perhaps if she did
 live with him, she might find out enough about him to know if
 their marriage had a good chance.  I thought then that if I had
 lived with Don before we married, I might have seen how difficult
 this marriage would have been, because you don't really know
 someone before you live with them.  What would I have done?  I
 don't know.  But at least I could have made a more reasoned
 choice.  But then, there are no guarantees, are there.  And we
 did like him.  He's bright and personable and funny and he has a
 brilliant future as an attorney.  But he hasn't one thing, appar-
 ently, and that's the ability to be faithful.  Thank God she
 found that out before they had children.  What he did wasn't even
 adultery, was it.  Somehow, in a way, for me, that's worse.  They
 weren't married.  When he found another woman, he should have
 respected her and their relationship, told her there was someone
 else and moved out.  That would have been hard, of course, but it
 would have been honest.  What he did do ...  He snuck around and
 Jennie caught him at it.  Totally by accident.  She saw them
 going into the woman's apartment building. - It was only three
 blocks away.  He met her in the grocery store! - on an evening
 when he was supposed to be working late with a client, a man Jen-
 nie knows.  Terry tried to lie his way out of it but Jennie had
 talked with the woman before she confronted him.  The woman was
 appalled.  She had no idea Terry was living with anyone.  So now
 Terry is alone.  Neither of them want anything to do with him.  
 It's no less than he deserves.  I'd like to take out an ad in the
 paper and warn every woman in San Francisco about him.
      I am so glad she's coming home.  They will all be home for
 the first time since Jennie left for San Franciso.  



                                          January 5th, 1986

 Dear Maggie,
 	A New Year and I do hope it's better than the last one.          
 There are good omens.  It was one of the best Christmases
 we've ever had.  A lot of laughter.  We even got Don out
 from behind his computer a few times.  But now life is back to
 what passes for normal around here.
      Jennie is doing well. She called today.  She has a new job,
 in Seattle and she's going back to school part time in the fall.  
 Wants to be accredited as a CPA.  Good for her, say I.  Don, too.  
 We plan to take care of her tuition. It's appalling what's hap-
 pening to college costs.  They are raising tuitions every year,
 and far more than the cost of living.  Scary.
      My job continues to go well.  One of the women there is
 becoming a friend and I like that.   Her only child is away at
 college and her husband died last year, so she's alone a lot.  
 Don is out of town so I called and asked if she wanted to go out
 to dinner.  We went last night and had a really good time.  It's
 been a hard year for her but she hasn't lost her sense of humor
 so it was fun.  




                                        January 15th, 1986

 Dear Maggie,

      What is it with toasters?   The first electric toaster ever
 made worked well enough but demanded constant attention.  You had
 to watch the toast and open the door on each side of the toaster
 to turn the piece over so that both sides would get done.  Next
 came the pop up toaster which was a vast improvement.  Set it and
 forget it, unless someone else had come along and changed the
 setting meantime.  Then, if it was underdone, all you had to do
 was to push it back down, then pop it up yourself when you felt
 it was ready.  To me, that was optimal.  But like so many other
 things in life, toasters have been "improved" to near unusable-
 ness.  Aggravating to the point where I would like to take a
 baseball bat to ours.  But I'd only have to buy another one like
 it because they don't make the original pop-up type any more.
 	Now they all have a crazy sensor. You set it (And the set-
 ting seems to need to be different for every kind of bread there
 is.), push it down.   If it comes up underdone, you can't push it
 back down while it's still warm because it won't stay down.  The
 sensor says, "No, no, no.  You can't do that.  That is unaccept-
 able.  I have done it as you said you wanted it done.  Take it or
 leave it." But if you wait until the toast has cooled off enough
 to push it down again, you'll get tan plywood.  Of course, if you
 change the setting the next time, so it toasts longer, you have a
 good chance of getting black plywood.  The damn toaster was con-
 trolling me and not me it. But now, at last, I have foiled the
 infernal sensor. And, as is usual with these things, the answer
 was so simple I don't know why I didn't think of it before.  
 Again underdone toast, but this time when I pushed the button
 down, I held it down with the butter dish, waited until it looked
 about right, then popped it up myself. Success! Perfect toast!
 And a real sense of satisfaction.  The toast part of my life is
 under control once more.
 	I wish that were true of more things in life.
      Just had a thought.  So many of the conveniences of modern
 life do make life more convenient, but there is a price to pay.             
 Dishwashers are a godsend but they're a one person job.  Wiping
 dishes for my mother - or even my father sometimes - was a two
 person job. And we talked.  When do parents and children get to
 talk now?  When is there time?  It's one thing I hear all the
 time.  Little Suzie doesn't talk to me.  And little Suzie says
 that she can't talk to her parents.  And when is there time any-
 way.  Children are organized beyond reason.  Sports, piano les-
 sons and on and on.  But when you're doing dishes together, there
 is nothing but time.   My mother and I talked about all sorts of
 things.  It's where I learned the family history.  Wonderful
 stories.  Happy. Sad. Interesting. Boring.  The whole gamut.                
 Family lore and ethos, plus a whole lot of "rules for living."
 n fact, that's where I learned the facts of life.  That was an
 interesting discussion.  I wasn't all that surprised because it
 explained a lot of the confused rumblings and the odd and some-
 times disgusting expressions like "wiener and bun" that I had
 heard on walks home from school.
 	"Never before you're married," said my mother.  "Not even
 the night before?" I asked.  "Not even the night before," my
 mother said firmly.  "That is something that is sacred to mar-
 riage alone."  I couldn't understand why you couldn't do it the
 night before you were getting married, but I had enough sense not
 to pursue it with her.
 	We talked other times, too, when I was helping her run the
 laundry through the wringer or hang the clothes on the line  (A
 washer and dryer have taken care of that, too, haven't they.), or
 while we were peeling apples or potatoes or scraping carrots.  
 And I talked to my Dad when he was shining shoes in the basement.  
 He did that every Saturday night.  Or when we were working in the
 garden.  Of course there wasn't the powerful isolating distrac-
 tion of TV in those days either.  There was radio, of course, but
 somehow it wasn't as pervasive.
      I just wonder when the cost in personal isolation of all
 this "progress" and communion with machines is going to get too
 high to pay.  As far as I'm concerned, it already is.
 	My God.  All this from a toaster.  And on a beautiful
 Minnesota winter day.  -2 degrees.  Bright and sunny.  The snow
 crunches.  Ice house villages scattered over the lake.  And in
 the park, parents skating with their children, some of the chil-
 dren so small they just stagger around.  Boys with hockey sticks
 skating rings through and around everyone.  Wonderful to see.  
 And now, outside my kitchen window there are birds all over the
 bird feeder.  Goldfinches in their drab winter yellow brown
 swarming around the thistle feeder.   All the perches are full
 and those who have to wait fuss in some sort of holding pattern.  
 One lucky one darts in as soon as one of the perches is vacated.  
 There never seems to be an argument about it which one it is.  I
 wonder how they decide the pecking order.  There's a pair of car-
 dinals at the other feeder.  Papa in his gorgeous red coat that's
 almost black on the back and Mama in her iridescent brown.  And,
 oh my, here come the deer.  Despite the fact that they do their
 best to eat up my garden all summer,  - I think I finally have
 something that's going to foil that.  - they really are lovely
 creatures.  Four of them.  Three lying down now, under the near-
 est pine tree.  The fourth is still standing.  There always seems
 to be one that is.  Standing guard?  And they seem to take turns
 at it.  All this in an honest to goodness suburb, 12 miles from
 the heart of downtown.  Life really does go on and that's a happy
 thing to see.

                                             January 30th, 19--

      Maggie, I am so tired.  Mainly I'm tired of being unhappily
 married and wonder how much longer I can go on.  Two mornings
 ago, very early in the morning ...  It was about 5:30 in hte
 morning.  I couldn't sleep.  Am dieting and, believe it or not,
 hadn't had time to eat dinner the night before.  Half a sandwich
 and that was it.  Then, after we had been to the concert, I fell
 into bed.  At 5:30, I was lying there, worrying about the job,
 about feeling pressure, about having things dumped on me, at
 work, at home, at church.  People taking too much for granted
 about what I can and will do, making demands.  If I don't do it,
 who will?  I know part of that is my fault, but it really was
 just one of those mornings.  Don woke up.  He was concerned.  I
 told him much stomaach hurt, that I hadn't had enough to eat.  I
 was going down for some cereal.  He wanted to cuddle.  Another
 demand.  To console me or him?   I had even thought about that,
 wanted it but the thought of the chance of getting physically
 aroused ...  Too much has gone on around that.  He was far too
 emotionally abusive of me in that arena for far too long.  So
 physical arousal with him makes me angry.  Fright and flight, but
 also fight.  I want to hurt him.  So I stay away from sex as much
 as I can.  But cuddling.  I was lying there before I woke up,
 wanting some of that.  But I can't stand the smell of the deod-
 erant he uses.  He also used the cologne for years which I hated
 even more.  I told him several times that I didn't like it, but
 he refused to give it up.  He finally did when during one of our
 marriage counseling sessions, I managed to get across how much I
 hated it and the counselor asked him why he continued to use it
 when  he knew how I felt.   He got rid of it.  But not the deod-
 erant.  We did cuddle for a time but then I did begin to feel
 aroused and angry and put upon.  I told him that I had thought
 about cuddling myself, but that it was the smell of his deoder-
 ant.  And that really was part of it, you know.  I didn't realize
 how much part of everything physical it is until I thought about
 it later that morning.  Don really got annoyed.  Said he had to
 use deoderant.  I told him he didn't have to use that one.  I
 could tell, later, how upset he was when he wouldn't talk to me
 when he left for work that morning.  I wasn't as nice as I could
 have been, I guess, but suddenly it was all too much.  He came
 home.  I apologized for being short with him.  I wanted to tell
 him that the sense of smell is very primitive and I suddenly
 realized that that smell ... That was the old smell.  The same
 smell from the days of abuse and I couldn't bear being anywhere
 around it.  I hate it on his shirts in my car.  The reaction is
 visceral.  I told him I wanted to explain.  I said "The sense of
 smell is the most primitive ..."  "I don't want to hear it.                 
 Don't say anything more," in that deadly tone that tells me he
 will walk out if I say anything more.  So I said nothing more
 because there was no point.  It was the same old, same old.  He
 had decided how I felt, and what I meant in the morning and no
 explanati0on, nothing, would make a difference.  He has been pure
 ice ever since.  Tonight I was making shrimp cooked in beer,
 something he likes a lot.  But we had played golf at 11:30 and he
 had eaten nothing before.  I had managed to pick up a very dull
 sandwich, the lowesst calorie one I could find, because I am
 dieting.  We only played nine holes because the people we were
 playing with, people we didn't know, at least the man was "an
 ass-hole."  I thought he was being something of one himself,
 insisting on rigorous application of golf etiquette when ready
 golf should have been the order of the day.  So, anyway, he had a
 sandwich about three.  Finally, about 7, I was so hungry, because
 of the diet, that I told him I was hungry and asked if we could
 have dinner.  How soon will dinner be ready, he asked.  Twenty
 minutes, said I.  I'm going to get some ice cream.  40 minutes
 later he still wasn't home.  I the shrinmp had been done for ten
 minutes.  The salad was ready.  I ate some salad.  He still
 wasn't there.  So finally I was dishing up everything to sit down
 and eat my dinner, when he got home.  I said, mildy enough, I
 thought, "Next time, I'll ask if you won't wait to go until after
 dinner."  "Fuck you."  No apology.  When I said that I would
 really like it if sometime he'd just apologize instead of getting
 angry at me when he's been rude.  And he said that he'd appreci-
 ate my being nice to him.  Know why he was late?  Kept me wait-
 ing?    He saw a magazine he was interested in and stood there
 looking at it until he decided to buy it ...  His mother says
 that there is something missing in him and there really is.  He
 can't get outside himself enough.  Everything relates to him.  If
 I am mad, I'm mad at him, even if I'm not and I tell him I'm not.  
 He decides how I feel and that's the way it is.  He has almost no
 friends.  The few he has all relate to his work and we never see
 them socially.  I have friends but he either doesn't like or
 resents most of them, so we don't see them socially either.  I
 want people we can do things with as a couple.  I want him not to
 feel threatened by my friends so that we can do things with them,
 or at least so he doesn't demean them.  I don't like him.  God
 help me, I don't, and I don't know how much longer I can put up
 with that.  At my age, finances are a consideration, but with my
 inheritance and the amount from his retirement, I could manage,
 provided I earned something like $15,000 to $20,000 a year and I
 think I can manage that.  Is there anything lonlier than an
 unhappy marriage?  It upsets my stomach, ties me in knots.  Fills
 me with feelings of gloom.  I don't care about anything some-
 times.  Except the children.  And Max.  God help me.  I love Max.
      Max has friends coming out of his ears.  People are always
 calling him, wanting him along on fishing trips or golf trips or
 skiing trips, or just for lunch, or poker.  He is my best friend
 and I am his.  And he tells me that.  His best playmate, says he.           
 He can talk to me about anything.  And I can talk to him about
 anything.  He has his flaws.  After all these years I can see
 them clearly, and sometimes he's exasperating.  But that is rare.           
 And we can talk about it.  We can talk about almost everything,
 except Don.  He doesn't like to think about Don touching me.  He
 knows how bad things are, but anything that smacks of anyone but
 him touching me
LAYOUT 000
:  B 
  
*U   <
_         \---+----+----+----+---------+---------+---------+---------+--@-/----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     STANDARD 2
      B
 <
